-: Configuring email on your smart device is one of two things. It's either so trivially easy that it's almost laughable or it can be a real nightmare. Now what I wanna talk about here is how we go through the process of configuring email. The important thing I wanna stress, though, is that when it comes to setting up email, that means you're setting up an account. So let's remember what we know about email from other episodes. Number one, we can have two different protocols for incoming email. It will either be POP3 or IMAP, and then we have an outgoing protocol, which is SMTP. Always remember that POP3 and IMAP are incoming and SMTP is outgoing, because a lot of the setups will literally say incoming or outgoing, and you just need to know what they're talking about. Every time we set these up there are going to be different ways to do it. So let's go ahead and talk about setting up, what I would call, a corporate or a internet service provider email. This is a very old school way of setting up emails. Okay, so let's go ahead and do that. I've got my phone here, and to do that, I just need to get to a place to make an account. Now, I've got two choices on my Android. I could actually install some email program. Now, all of you Apple people are like, isn't there a mail program built in? Yeah, well, us Android people, we can put in our own mail programs, and then we would go and set it up within the mail program, or we just set up the accounts separately. So I'm gonna do it separately, and I'm gonna go to accounts. So you can see I've got a lot of accounts on here as it is. So here at the bottom, I'm gonna add an account. Now here are all the different types of accounts that it knows just out of the blue. If you installed other applications on here, it could handle those as well. What I'm interested though, in this case, is email. So let's look down here and I'm gonna set up personal IMAP. Do you see that? So let's go through the process of setting this guy up. So I'm gonna type in a completely bogus account. Don't bother ever trying to contact this. And what I'm gonna do is, normally, I would just hit next, but there's a problem. If you wanna set up a classic email account, you're gonna have to know certain things. Number one, you're gonna have to know the fully qualified domain name of your SMTP server, and it's probably gonna be mail.br6.com, or something like that. Secondly, you may have a username and password to sign on to that SMTP server. So you're gonna need a username and password. Third, you're gonna need a port number for your SMTP password, which is normally port 25, but hold onto that thought for a minute. Then, you ready? Then, so it's IMAP, we're gonna need the fully qualified domain name for the IMAP server, which is often the same server, so it could be mail.br6.com, for example. I'm probably gonna need a username and password. And then I'm also probably gonna need a port number. So if we're doing IMAP, that's port 143, however, we're about to change that. People understand that it's hard to set up email for normal people. So the reason I can't move forward on this right now is the moment I hit next, it's just gonna ask for a password, and it's gonna automatically try to figure this out. It's gonna go to br6.com, it's gonna query the DNS, find out what the mail server is, get its name. It's gonna try to automatically fill this in for us. And because there is no br6.com, we're gonna have terrible errors. No problem, take a look on the screen again. You see where it says manual setup? So it's gonna ask me what kind of account is this? Didn't I already hit IMAP? Okay, I'll hit it again. So I'm gonna type in some bogus password. I'm gonna hit next. Now what I can do here is, let me hit next one more time. It's gonna go ahead and give me some trouble, that's all right, and it's gonna kick me back. And this is the page I wanted to show you. If you take a look, this is IMAP and it shows Port 143, right? But do you see underneath this where it says STARTTLS and all these values? we need to talk about that for a minute. Email traditionally has been completely in the clear, I mean in the clear. And starting a number of years ago, not that many years ago I would say 2009, 2010s, which, for an old guy like me, seems like yesterday, they began to come up with encrypted versions of POP3, IMAP, and SMTP. And that's where you hear these names like SSL, STARTTLS. In these cases, you have to use different port numbers than the standards. For SMTP, you might end up having to use port 465, or port 587 instead of port 25. For IMAP, you're probably gonna be using port 993. For POP3, you're gonna be using port 995. What you're getting out of this is point-to-point encryption of your emails. From the moment it leaves your phone to the moment it gets to the mail server, it's completely encrypted, which is a real nice benefit. Now keep in mind, if somebody's asking you to set up an email in this old fashioned way, they're going to send you an email, or a text, or something with this information in there. The nice part is that all of these tools when you type in values, you hit okay, they will go dial out and try to make that connection. So you'll know if you're wrong because it'll say, oh, couldn't contact server or server refused my connection. And then you try different port numbers, you try different settings, and you play with it until you get it right. Or you talk to the email administrator and say, why didn't you gimme these port numbers from the beginning. so I didn't have to go through all this pain and suffering? The other interesting point that comes up on the A+ exam is something called S/MIME. Now, S/MIME stands for Secure Multipurpose Internet Mail Extension. So let me explain what that is. Have you ever added a file to an email where you just attached a file, a picture, or a Word document, or whatever it was? Well, what you were using is something called MIME. MIME basically takes a binary file, and takes every eight bits, and turns it into what's known as an ASCII code. In essence, it turns all of your data into gibbley-gobbley goops of text, which can then be read by the receiving thing, and then turn it back into your video, or your picture, or whatever it might be. So MIME is something that we use all the time. I bet most people watching this have probably sent an email, and put a picture in or something like that. The problem, keep in mind, is that secure email is a relatively new thing. So for a number of years, what we did is we couldn't encrypt the email so we encrypted the attachments going through a process known as S/MIME. Now, S/MIME, in my opinion, is an obsolete term. Today, pretty much all me emails are encrypted end-to-end and you're okay. Now, if you're still worried about that we're still not gonna use S/MIME, S/MIME is forgotten. What we do instead is we tend to move towards third party tools. So let me show you one that I love to use, Proton Mail. So this is Proton Mail. Yep, that's my email address. Send me an email, say hello. It doesn't look like much, but the cool part about Proton Mail is that it is fully encrypted. Not only is it encrypted from my phone over to the mail server, but if you're also using Proton Mail, it is completely encrypted from end-to-end. So the idea of having to set up things like your POP3, and your IMAPs, that's almost become passe these days. Do be aware that it exists, and be ready for these port numbers for the exam, but understand, in today's world, we tend to turn towards point-to-point encrypted emails, and things like S/MIME are literally forgotten. There is one other way to set up email, and this one is so trivial that it's just downright fun. Let's set up something like a Google, or a Yahoo, or an iCloud account. They all pretty much set up the same way. So once again, I'm gonna go to settings, and head back over to my accounts. And this time I wanna set up, I don't know what sounds like fun? A Google account? There we go, right there. So what starts happening here is you begin to use these proprietary types of connections. These are commercial email providers. Their configuration becomes downright trivial. I've got a fingerprint on this guy, so all I have to do is type in the email address, and I type in the right password, and poof, it's set up. It's that trivially easy. In fact, I'll even give one more to the Apple folks. When you set up an account like that, it literally lists all the exact same providers that you see on the CompTIA objectives, iCloud, Google, Exchange, Yahoo. They're literally all listed. Type on the right one, type in the correct email address, type in the right password, and you ain't talking about no ports or anything like that, it just goes.