-: Thermal printers are the unsung heroes of the printing world. Anybody who's ever got a sales receipt from a point of sale system has probably enjoyed the benefits of a thermal printer. Thermal printers work through a very simple mechanism. What we have (opens printer) is paper that is thermally sensitive. Wherever you hit it with heat, it changes colors. That's all there is to it. So, a thermal printer is really only gonna have two parts to it. It's gonna have some kind of feed mechanism that keeps the paper moving up and then it's going to have a heating element. Which can actually, it's got zillions of little spots on it and it will put little spots of heat onto the paper and the paper turns black or blue, and there you go. Thermal printers have a few benefits. One of the things that we could run into with those is number one, a lot of times you'll see multi-part forms. What you're looking at is usually like a white sheet and a yellow sheet, and they're both thermally sensitive. So that can be very convenient for a customer copy and a store copy, kinda situation. But the downside is, is that this thermal paper is sensitive to heat. If I leave this paper in a hot room; it will turn blue or black on me, so that's a problem. Even pressing my thumb against it for even a few moments, is going to actually make it change color. So, we would never use thermal paper as a long-term solution because it's just going to change over time. We want to avoid that. So printing on, it's pretty straightforward. So let's see if I can get this to actually print. (printing) Hey, fantastic! So, we've got a nice little print job. Now obviously, with the format in things like this, you're gonna be very limited in terms of the output you can generate. Most of these thermal printers are reduced to nothing more than text, but boy do they do a wonderful job. Particularly when it comes to point of sale. (rips paper) The big issue you're gonna run into with these thermal printers in terms of maintenance is number one; you end up replacing the paper a lot. They don't like giving really big rolls simply because they're so sensitive to temperature. I'll bet everybody watching this has stood at a point of sale system while somebody was to say, "Oh, wait a minute, I gotta change out the paper on the register." The other one is that the heating element will pick up dander over time. So, in that situation, usually what we do is we use a plain white cloth and we wipe down the heating element. It's not very hard to do. Depends on the device and you probably wouldn't wanna use your finger normally, but it won't hurt. And you could just wipe it down and you've done all the cleaning you need to do. And the other thing to be careful about is debris. These things generate an amazing amount of paper dander and the only thing you're gonna be able to do is every now and then, usually every six months to a year, you go through and you use your air gun, and you air these things out and get out an incredibly large amount of paper dander for a printer so incredibly small. So, next time you're buying something and you're at a point of sale system, and somebody hands you a little something like that; think about how hardworking these little printers are and how rarely we actually recognize what they do.