-: Choosing a CPU that meets all of your needs is one of the most critical and important decisions that you will make when building your PC. The wrong choice can oftentimes mean a computer that simply doesn't perform the needed tasks or quickly becomes outdated, both things that you want to avoid. And since we've already learned about some of the CPU's features such as multi-cores and clock speed, let's discuss choosing the right CPU for the job at hand. Now, the first consideration you want to have is what type of system are you gonna build, or what type of system do you want? You're gonna need to make considerations on whether you have a laptop or a desktop on exactly what CPU. There are some features in laptops that have better power efficiency on CPUs. There are features in desktop CPUs that have more horsepower to them, so you can do those high-end video editings and play those high-end games. And that kind of brings us to our next consideration is what's gonna be the primary use of the computer, right? Are you gonna be playing those high-end video games, those real 3D monster games? Are you gonna be editing video? Do you need that extra horsepower? Is there anything else that's going to, that you can think of now and in the future, that's gonna necessitate a better CPU? And really, that comes to thinking about how future proof do you want it to be. I would guesstimate that I probably build and rebuild a new system every three years. Some people, that's a high cost to entail, right? Those parts are costly, the time involved is costly. So you need to kind of figure out how long do you want the system to last? How future-proof do you want it to be against some of the technology that's coming out? And believe me, it's getting advanced. And you know, you decide those two things, and you'll have a very good lay on exactly what type of CPU that you need to install. However, you know, Mike has Mike's cool tools, I think we should start something new, let's start Steve's Super Sites. And let's take a look at the first one, which is essentially a cheat mode for choosing your hardware. I'm over pcpartpicker.com, which is one of my absolute favorite sites. The great thing about this site is it allows you to custom build a a computer system from the ground up, and it kind of holds your hands, and will only let you see items that are compatible with each other. For instance, let's go over here and click on PC Builder. One of the first things you're gonna notice, and this is actually key, is that it automatically puts up a URL here. If you are building a custom system in PCPartPicker, please save this URL, 'cause you can go right back to it at any time. And if we come down here and go to the very first choice, and you'll notice they're in a very logical hierarchy here, and we click "Choose a CPU", I mean, PCParkPicker does a great job for us. Not only can we see all these modern CPUs that are out there, we can also see their clock speeds, right? We talked about that. Their power draw, whether they have integrated graphics, and we can also see current pricing as well as user reviews. So going forward, as we build our system, and as we make those determinations on what hardware to use, we're gonna be using PCPartsPicker quite a bit to help make sure that we just keep everything focused in line and compatible. And I strongly suggest you use it too.