-: Hardware raid may be a better option when you have a lot of money and when you need a lot of power. But today's increasingly more powerful CPUs makes software raid a real option and by software raid, I simply mean you're letting the operating system handle the raid for you. Now, in this example, I'm gonna use Windows and I'm gonna show you a couple of ways that Windows does RAID. The first place to look is Disk Management. Here I am in Disk Management and in this particular case I've installed a bunch of drives. Now you will notice that their capacities are really small. They're only like 50 gigabytes. I'm doing that on purpose because I want things to move quickly. But if you'll take a look you'll see I've got 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 drives installed. Now, windows by itself is a little limited in what it can do RAID wise, but the two things it can do quite easily is RAID zero and RAID one. So for example, I'm gonna pick on this top one and if I pick a striped volume and I have to have at least one other drive, it's gonna go ahead and make a classic RAID zero between those two drives. Now, the thing you need to understand is that Windows is doing all this for us. So Windows actually sees all the drives. Yes, it gets one drive letter but it still sees all the drives. Now I've got some more drives here. So let's do it again except this time I'm gonna do a mirror. So this time I'm gonna do a disk three and four. It wants to convert stuff to dynamic disk for me. And you'll see I've now made myself a mirrored volume. So Windows by itself can handle both RAID zero and RAID one. Now I wanna throw in a little teaser here for you. It's a little bit beyond A+ but still kind of cool. If I look on this last drive you'll see it says there's a new RAID five volume. Basically, there are ways to do RAID five but you have to have more advanced versions of Windows than the Windows Pro I've got right here. So when we're talking about Windows, you're really talking about two levels of RAID, RAID Zero and RAID one. But we've done this all in software. Lemme go ahead and clear these out real quick, and I am gonna close Disk Management and I wanna show you something called Storage Spaces. Storage Spaces is an incredible software RAID tool built into most copies of Microsoft Windows. The idea behind Storage Spaces is it gives you a lot more flexibility. Yes, you can do RAID five here. In fact, you can do more than that. Let me show you how Storage Spaces works. So when we come into Storage Spaces the first thing it's gonna say is create a new pool and storage space. So I'm gonna say, yep, let's do that. Now keep in mind I have five drives in here that I wanna work with. For our first time out, let's go ahead and just pick two drives and this will create a pool. A pool is kind of like an array. It is a preassigned group of drives who will work together to do something. So we'll give it a name Call it something clever like first, we give it a drive letter. And now here's the interesting part for this guy, what we can do is we have four choices here. Number one is a simple, and that's just JBOD. It makes a bunch of disks. Second is we can do a two-way mirror, and that is a classic mirror. So let's go ahead and do that. Now as we make a classic mirror, one of the things that's actually kind of interesting, I wanna show you this is it'll sit there and say what the pool capacity is going to be. And now it says, how big do you want it to be? Well, that doesn't make sense. It should be defined by the size of the drives. So I have two in this case just using 50 gigabyte drives and if they're mirrored, then I should have about a 50 gigabyte mirror because they're making two copies. But what it says here, it says the total pool capacity is 98.9. This is gibibytes versus gigabytes stuff problems but the maximum size, it's showing as half that. But now watch this. I'm gonna make it 48 terabytes And it works. Now that cannot make any sense. I have two hard drives total capacity of a hundred gigabytes and I just made this 48 terabytes. This is one of the cool features of Storage Spaces. Storage Spaces will go, we'll get it at any size you want and as it we begin to fill this if you start to fill up the drives, it'll go, you better put some new drives in here real quick because I've told them we got 48 terabytes and I'm gonna need some more space. So Storage Spaces could be absolutely incredible in terms of its flexibility. So what we've done here is with two drives we've gone ahead and we've made ourselves a mirror. I'm gonna create a new pool in a storage space. Now RAID five requires a minimum of three drives and I've got 'em here. So I'm gonna create the pool. Now what I have to do is select parody. In Microsoft lingo, parody is RAID five. So in this case, I've got three drives for a total of about 150 gigabytes and the equivalent of one of these drives capacity is spread across all three of these. If I wanted to, I could make this bigger but I'm just gonna leave it alone. And I've gone ahead and created a RAID five array. So from five drives, I've made a mirrored pair and I've made a RAID five array. So let's go and take a look and see how this all looks in Disk Management. As we take a look in Disk Management, this looks very similar to what we would see with a hardware array in that Disk Management just sees the end results of the array as one big drive. So Storage Spaces kind of hides all this from Disk Management. Now, those are fun but probably the coolest one that I like when it comes to storage spaces is what they call a three-way mirror. In order for this to work, I need five blank drives. So let me clear those out then we'll build a pool. Now that I've got all of those previous pools deleted, I'm gonna go ahead and make a new pool here and here's all my drives back. I need all five of them to do what I'm about to do. So let's create a pool, and this time I'm gonna select three-way mirror. Three-way mirror is Microsoft's proprietary RAID. Nobody really knows how it works and Microsoft isn't telling anybody but it has some incredible features to it. Normally when we're working with RAID it's really beneficial to have drives of the exact same size. For example, if I've got three 50 gigabyte drives and I'm doing RAID five I get exactly a hundred gigabytes of storage. The other 50 is used for parody. But if I have one 50 and two forties, 10 of the gigabytes on the 50 is just ignored in essence. So that's always been a problem with traditional RAIDs is that using different side drives actually causes wastage but it doesn't with a three-way mirror. And Microsoft isn't telling us how it works but it is absolutely fascinating. So I do a three-way mirror and it tells me my total capacity, five drives that's about 250 gigs and here it shows us a maximum size is 80 and we can change that to anything we want. We'll call it 100 terabytes. Okay, maybe that's a little too big. How about if we do a thousand gigabytes, one terabyte? There we go. The cool part about the proprietary three-way mirror is that even if we don't know how it works it seems to take good advantage of different sized drives. It doesn't even care where they're plugged in. You can use external drives if you want. It's incredible. And the coolest part to all this is that I can lose two of any of these drives and I'm in absolutely great shape. The big takeaway to software RAID is that it's really gonna be up to your operating system to provide you that capability. Windows and Linux and even Mac OS have software RAID capabilities. The only downside is, is that with software RAID, you don't have a dedicated RAID controller. So you're asking the CPU itself to handle all these RAID duties. With a big robust CPU, it's not that big of a deal. With a smaller CPU, it can really slow your system down. So software RAID is free. It comes with your OS, but it's a little bit slower whereas hardware RAID tends to be a lot more expensive but it keeps your system running fast and it has those extra features.