-: Ah, optical media, these wonderful little round disks that are printed with something on one side and all shiny on the other. These disks have been used to store data since around 1980, and although they're fading out today, we still see lots of systems that have optical media drives in them, and for a lot of us, especially system builders, driver discs and other things still come with optical media. So I want to go ahead and cover it in this particular episode. Now, optical media's been around for a long time, since around 1980, and we can basically break it down into three groups. There's CDs, DVDs, and Blu-ray, and I wanna cover all those real quick in this episode. So first of all, let's start with a CD. Now, CD stands for compact disc, and it was originally designed to do nothing more than play music. It stored the music digitally, basically microscopic tiny little pits and then nice shiny spots were our ones and zeros. It was read by a laser, and it allowed us to store a ton of ones and zeros in a very, very small space. Now, optical media in its CD form was originally for music, and it came in two capacities. There was 74-minute and 80-minute. We took this concept and we said, well, you know what? We can make this store data, and came up with something called a CD-ROM. So I've got a CD-ROM right here. So you see that term compact disc? What this is right here is a CD-ROM. This is a mastered disc that's dispersed, and this particular one has device drivers for a very late generation Core i9 processor on 'em. The whole idea behind CD-ROM was to allow us to store data, so we had to come up with a file system, and that file system was based on a standard called ISO-9660, which we don't care about. We basically just call it the CD file system, which allows us to take that CD, put it into a CD drive, and then within Windows or Mac OS or whatever, we can actually see the folders and files as they were originally mastered. CDs were great, but we also enjoyed the capability of making our own CDs, and that's where we began to see stuff like CD-R, which allows us to do what we called a burn, and we could put whatever we wanted on this. You couldn't erase it, so we could put whatever we wanted on it and then you could have that for yourself, so for backup, things like that, it was really popular. There was another form of CD called CD ReWrite, which not only allowed you to burn stuff, but then you could erase it and go ahead and then put more data on there. Now I wanna take one quick peek at this CD-R, 'cause I wanna make sure we're aware of something here. So first of all, you have the speed. On this one, it says 52X. This was based as a multiple of the original CD speed. Then we had the capacity measured both in megabytes and in minutes. So this is a 700 megabyte. Back in the old days, speed was a big deal. Today, any optical CD reader is going to be able to run at extremely high speeds. We don't even worry about that stuff anymore. So CDs were very, very popular for a long time. The only downside was their capacity. So let's really quick, let's just put up a quick table and show the different types of CDs that were available back in the day. CDs started the thirst for optical media, but a new technology called DVD really took off. With DVD, and by the way, DVD stands for digital video disc, because it was originally designed to play movies. Now, these aren't the super high-def movies or anything like that. It ran at a very low resolution in today's standards, but it did bring something that was very cool, and that was big surround sound. So DVDs were absolutely fabulous for playing movies. However, just as we did with CDs playing music to do data, we came up with the idea of using DVDs to hold data in what we call DVD-ROM, and I've got one right here. So if you look on this driver disc for my very modern motherboard, you'll see it says DVD-ROM. DVD-ROM is a mastered form of DVD. We have to make one, then you make a gazillion copies of it. It's read-only memory, and even today, DVD-ROM is probably the most common type of optical media out there. You'll be hard pressed to come up with a motherboard that doesn't come with the DVD-ROM on it with all your drivers and everything you need to get that motherboard up to speed. Now, DVD came with a whole bunch of different capacities. In fact, these capacities are a little bit complex. So what I'm gonna do is let me put up a little table. When you're looking at this table, I want you to notice something. DVDs came out in what was called dual-layered, where literally on one side you had two layers, and you had different lasers that would hit different layers. So you had dual-layer and you also had double-sided, so you'd have a DVD which was silver on both sides. So the original DVD capacity was single-sided, single-layered, and all of these other ones are either double-sided or double layered or both. Let's take a look. Just like CDs, we had burnable versions of DVDs as well. In fact, it created some real complications. During the life of DVDs, we began to see some real crazy variances. For example, you'll see this is a burn once DVD called DVD+R. Then they had a DVD-R and DVD-RAM and all these weird things. On the read/writes, we had the same problem. So if you take a look here, I've got a DVD+RW and a DVD-RW. These were actually competing standards that caused havoc back in the day. You would have to get a player that could be compatible with these different standards, and it drove us all bananas. Nice part is today, any optical media device can read and write any of these different formats, so it's now a moot point. Today, Blu-ray is considered the number one in terms of capacity read/writeable formats. Blu-rays are designed for high definition movies. So they originally had Blu-ray, and then now we have Blu-Ray ROM, and then you have Blu-ray double-sided, or single-sided, double layer or single layer. But luckily for us, there's only two capacities. Let's go ahead and put those two capacities up on the screen. You even have, for example, here I have a burnable Blu-ray disc, and there's even a Blu-ray Rewriteable called, you ready? BD-RE. Don't have one of those on me. These large capacities, 25 gigabyte, 50 gigabyte, are so big that they're great for playing high definition movies, but for us, in terms of needing to store a lot of stuff for like drivers and such, you very rarely see those type of discs. So when we're talking about reading all of these discs, what I've got in front of me here is a classic optical media, this thing is a reader, it's a burner, it does everything. It's very hard to find any of these anymore that don't do everything. It's pretty much standardized. So there are a couple of things on here I want you to take a look at. First of all, let's look on the back. What you're looking at here is just good old SATA. There's a SATA data port and then there's a SATA power port. The only downside to these is what I call the calling card. A lot of times I'll be working on a system, and I'll drop a piece of optical media in there with some utility or something like that, and I'll unplug it, and I can't get the optical media out, and that's where this little teeny tiny hole comes into play. That hole is nothing more, you take a paper clip, spread it open, you shove it in there very carefully, and it prizes the door open safely. It doesn't hurt anything, and you can get your calling card out. So yeah, I've done a few calling cards in the day. So anyway, I wanna plug this in. I've got a SATA cable right here. So it's no big deal. Just plug that in, just like that, I give it some power, and this thing's ready to go. So when it comes to configuration, because this particular device is an ATA type device, all computers are ready to talk to it. So in this particular case, I've got an ATA device here. I've got 'em plugged in. If I've done this right, it'll show up in system setup, which it does. I've gone ahead and booted into Windows, and if I've done this right, it should show up in disc management. Let's take a look, and if we take a look right here, there is our optical media device. So the beautiful part about configuring optical media is because today they're all SATA devices based on the ATA standard, plug them in, make sure they show up in their system setup, and your operating system is going to see it automatically. It's just that easy.