-: Now I wanna give you some tips on how you can study for the A+ exam to make sure you pass it quickly and easily. The first tip is if you have the book, read the chapters. The chapters in this book are so well detailed with all sorts of call to actions that like dig you deeper into the subject, all sorts of graphics and illustrations to help you understand those more advanced concepts. But the book is a critical, critical tool. Then I think after you read the book you should move on to the videos. We do a great job here of walking you through visually understanding all the stuff in that book, and we get hands-on with a lot of the stuff. Now, speaking of hands-on, you know, sometimes these things can get a little expensive and perhaps maybe, you know, if you don't have the money to go out and find some old gear on eBay to get your hands on, you can always reach out to your local junior or community college and see if they have what's known as a makerspace. And makerspaces are great because they're community-run and they have all sorts of tools and components that you can get in there and get hands-on with. And they're absolutely free, typically donation-run. And if you wanna find some makerspaces in your area, I found this great makerspacedir right here, and in fact, I found this makerspace Acme Creation Lab right down the road from my studio. So that's fantastic, I know that they actually exist and I can find 'em through that site. One cool study tool that you can use is PC Building Simulator, and this is actually available on Steam and is just chock-filled with all sorts of ways to get hands-on virtually with equipment. But you can build entire systems from the ground up and customize 'em to every degree and also introduce problems to it and then troubleshoot the solutions yourself. So PC Building Simulator is a great and fun way to get hands-on with equipment virtually. Now, one final thing is that there are lots and lots of practice tests out there, and I encourage you to seek every single one out and complete them all. You can never have too much preparation when it comes to taking these IT certification exams. And with practice it'll bring familiarity, and that familiarity with the knowledge will bring expertise of that knowledge. So please seek out all those practice exams online and take as many possible.