-: I wanna talk a minute about that little box that everybody connects to, to make a local area network. I've got a bunch of these little boxes in front of me. Some of them only have maybe five connections. Some have more than that. It doesn't matter. One of the things that's important with these boxes is I can plug these network cables in anywhere I want. You don't have to plug them in, in certain points, but as long as all the computers are plugged into one of these little boxes together, I've got a local area network, but that's not the issue. What I wanna talk about is, there's two very different technologies in front of you. I've got four things called a switch and one thing called a hub. Now I'm gonna give it away. This box right over here on top is a hub. Now underneath it is a switch. Can you tell the difference? Mike, we don't even know what the difference is yet. I know that's what this episode's all about, but I want you to look very, very closely. If you look on this top one right here, you'll see it says hub. And if you look at the lower one, you'll see it says switch. So what is the difference between a hub and a switch? Well, let me show you. Here on the left, I have an eight port hub and you can see I've got four computers, A through D. And what I'm gonna do is, I'm gonna connect these computers to this hub. Now, it doesn't matter where you plug them in, as long as they're all connected, we now have a local area network. But something very interesting takes place. Let's say that computer D wants to talk to computer A. So computer D sends a frame and it goes into this port right here. This box is what we call a repeater. It takes the signal that comes in and it repeats it. It makes a new copy. So it's not an amplifier. It repeats the signal and sends that signal back out where there, everybody is connected. So that way everybody will get the conversation between D and A. Now, these other computers, they'll read the Mac address and since they know their Mac address and they look at the destination Mac, they just erase it 'cause it's not for them. And that's how the communication goes. Now, there's a problem with this type of setup. Let's say that C and D are talking and A and B are talking. On this hub I'm going to say that it has a maximum throughput of 10 megabits per second. Now that sounds like a lot, but if you're trying to copy a Word document or send a printer job, it can actually be very slow and we're gonna make it worse because A and B are talking and C and D are talking, they're sharing that 10 megabits per second, which means both of these conversations are now five megabits per second. And heaven forbid we put 10 or 15 more computers on there. It really slows stuff down. So what I wanna do is, let's suddenly, magically transform this hub into a switch. It looks the same, but it's gonna act very differently. The first thing that happens is that this box will begin to collect Mac addresses. So as a plugs in, he'll write down the Mac address for A on a little internal list. As B plugs in, he now knows what the Mac address is for B, C, D, everybody who's on there, and it's all taken care of automatically, there's nothing to configure and he now knows everybody's Mac address. By knowing that, something magical happens. Let's say A and B wanna start talking to each other. As soon as the frame comes in here, the switch looks at the destination Mac address, 'cause he is got 'em all memorized. He goes, oh, that's this port right here. And makes a direct physical connection, almost like those old time telephone operators, where they would plug into the switches. And the same thing for this communication right here between C and D. The power of this is that now, instead of having two 5 megabit per second conversations, we have two 10 megabit per second conversations, because nobody's trying to talk over the other conversation. If you're going to be making a local area network today, you're gonna be using a switch.