-: The whole reason that we use the internet is to get information. In order to get information, that is gonna require us to use some kind of program which we generically call a client to access something that we generically call a server. Now, let's use probably the most common example there is, just opening up your web browser and going someplace. Your web browser is a web client. It's designed to be used by you to query these things called servers to get information. So when you type in www.totalsem.com, you're actually going to a very specific computer. This computer is running server software. Now, it's not Edge or Firefox or Chrome. This type of software has names like, for example, IIS or Apache. In fact, here, lemme show you a picture of IIS in action. It's pretty boring, right? But what's really happening is that computer is running software that's waiting for you. It's listening for you to come in and send a request. And stored on that server are the webpages that whatever the people who designed www.totalsem.com or www.google.com set up. And those will then be handed to you. So you have a communication between a web browser and a web server. Everything on the internet is a client and a server. So if you want to play games, you're going to have a client game tool. I like to play Counter-Strike Source. So I actually have the Counter-Strike Source game on my computer, but then I connect to some server, which is then storing the game and passing it out to all the other players. So you get the idea? We have clients and we have servers. Let's develop this concept a little bit. So I've got two computers here. Here's my computer and his IP address is right here. And somewhere way over, I don't even know physically where it is, don't care, is a web server. This web server has the IP address right here. Now what's gonna happen is I'm gonna open up my web browser and I'm gonna type in something like www.totalsem.com. Now this is a computer and it has to have an IP address. So we have this thing called DNS, which is basically a speed dialer. And what we'll do is when we type in www.totalsem.com it will go out and get the right IP address. And now we can actually send out a request. So our initial request to this guy looks something like this. So here's the IP address we're trying to get to, here's our IP address. And then we got a little chunk of data that basically says, could we have your initial webpage please? So it comes over to this guy, he is now going to get the initial webpage and he's gonna send it back to us and simply spin around the IP addresses so it gets back to us. But there's a problem here. The problem is, is that my computer is doing a lot of stuff all at the same time. For example, I might have lots of web pages open. I might have a bunch of tabs open in my web browser. Or I might be doing other stuff like I might be sharing a folder with somebody else, or I might be playing a game, I might be having a Skype call with somebody. So my computer needs more than an IP address simply to keep track of this. For example, I can keep going back to that same web server and I can have four tabs open and they all work. So we need to add something else to this. And what we're going to add is what we call is port number. A port number is what gets us to the right application. So the IP address gets you to the computer, but the port number gets you to the right application. Port numbers go from zero to 65535. And just like you have a source and a destination IP address, you're always gonna have a source and a destination port number. Let's go ahead and develop this a little more. So this server over here, he is a web server. We call it HTTP. And he's what we call listening on port 80. This same box could be, for example, a Windows file server. Now that doesn't happen very often, but it could be. And he would be listening on another port number called 445. So this guy can handle both any incoming requests for a webpage as well as incoming requests to share folders. So let's go ahead and go through this mechanism one more time. This time we're gonna send out our packet. We're gonna have our destination IP address, which is gonna be the server. We're gonna have our own IP address. And now we're gonna add two port numbers. First of all, we're gonna put a port 80 in here. That is our destination port number. And then we're gonna have another port number that's not quite 65000, but it's gonna be a big number. So this one's a really big number. And then we're gonna put in our request for a webpage. Now when this comes over to the server, first of all, once it gets in the server, it got to the server so we can just take the IP addresses off. And now we have something that says, this needs to go to whoever is listing on port 80. Because the web server's listing on port 80, it goes to him. The file server, that's on 445 so he's gonna ignore it. So the cool part is, is now this guy is gonna send back our data, and he's gonna put the IP address back on. So it'll get there. Except he's just gonna swap the destination and IP addresses. And he's also going to swap the ports. So now the destination port number is gonna be this big number, and then the source is gonna be 80. And now the data is gonna be the initial webpage. So when this gets over to my computer, I might have four or five windows open, but each one of these windows gets its own port number. And this is spun up automatically by the operating system. So as this comes back in, we take the IP address off 'cause it's got to the computer. And now it's gonna look at the destination port number, and it knows exactly which page to give it back to because that's the one with the matching port number. So our ethernet frame's getting a little bit bigger. So now not only do we have MAC addresses and IP addresses, now we have ports. So the MAC address is being used with the hardware of the system. So I'm gonna kind of take that outta play. Remember, IP addresses get the data to the right computer, but it's the port number that gets it to the right application on that computer. Now as you might imagine, we've got a lot of these conversations going on on any regular computer. I mean, you probably got a bunch of webpages open, you might be checking your email, you might have a Skype thing running in the background. You can have all kinds of things going on. And you can actually see all of these connections taking place on any system. In Windows one of the ways we can do it is with good old Resource Monitor. So I've got Resource Monitor running here on Windows 10. You wanna see all my connections? Come on. So here I am in Resource Monitor and I'm gonna click over to Network. And what I want you to see right here are what we we call these TCP connections. We'll talk about TCP in another episode. What's important here is that these are our connections. So here's my local address, here's my local port, here's my remote address, and here's my remote port. This is something called teams.exe. I'm using Dropbox, the popular cloud tool, that's right here. So what I want you to do is watch this. I'm gonna open up a web browser. And this is Chrome. And now I've got this start page, which is a popular tool I like to use. And you'll notice that things are starting to pop up. Do you see these? What you're looking at here are the connections to Chrome. This is a secure website so it uses port 443, not port 80. And it's making these connections. What's interesting about Resource Monitor is that you'll open up one little simple webpage, and you notice I just opened up one webpage and all of a sudden Chrome, Chrome, Chrome, Chrome, Chrome. Why am I getting four or five of these connections? Well, what's happening is one webpage might have ads on it, it might have some background stuff, it might be running JavaScript. All of these other things create their own connections. So just because you open one webpage, that doesn't mean you're gonna get a single connection. So let's zero in on our port numbers a little bit. We actually have three different types of port numbers. First of all, all port numbers from zero to 1023 are what we call well-known ports. And these are applications like the web and secure web and all kinds of other stuff that we're gonna get into in great detail, that are so well-known that nobody else can ever, ever use these port numbers, and nor would we want them to. The next group is from port numbers 1024 to 49151. These are what we call registered ports. Registered ports were folks that came out after well-known ports, but then they become like, hey, we want our own ports. So for example, if you play Steam games, their registered port's like 12000 something. I forget what it is. And basically we're well known. We've registered ourselves with the elders of the internet. And you probably don't want to use those port numbers either. Last are what we call ephemeral ports, and that's 49152 to 65535. Remember, we always have to have two port numbers. Well, that second port number is the ephemeral port number. It is spun up by your system every time it makes a connection to give a return port number for whatever server you might be connecting to. Alright, there are lots and lots of port numbers that you're gonna need to memorize for the A Plus. Now, don't panic, I'm gonna go through so many interesting applications in this series. You'll know them well. However, lemme put up a quick list of the particular port numbers listed as objectives for the A Plus. Here you go. Holy smoke, look at all this stuff. Now, hopefully there's a couple here you've already kind of picked up on based on what I've said so far. Do you see HTTP, port 80? So that is a unprotected webpage, no encryption. And then you see HTTPS, 443. That is an encrypted webpage, which is what the vast majority of webpages are today. And a whole bunch more you don't know. The other thing I want you to notice there is that almost every single one of these is a well-known port. So port numbers are absolutely critical. And remember, IP addresses get you to the right computer and port numbers get you to the right application.