-: So I've got a problem. I've got a bunch of these voiceover IP phones that I need to get plugged into my network. Now, at every workstation, I've got two connections, and these are basically just network devices, but I don't want them to be on the same network as all my computers and everything. So what I kind of need is two networks. So all these cables are running into my main distribution frame, but I don't wanna just plug everybody into one switch because I want them to be separated. So I could buy another switch. That would be one thing I could do, but I could also do something very, very cool. And that's called a VLAN, or a virtual local area network. A VLAN takes one physical switch and electronically turns it into two or more switches. It literally separates the local area network into two local area, or three, or however many you need. In this way, I'm gonna keep my voiceover IP phones on their own separate network without having to buy an extra switch. VLANs are incredibly popular, and we see them all the time, so I'm gonna have to get in and configure this switch for a VLAN. We're also gonna do a couple other things while we're in there. So if I'm gonna configure a switch, well, how do I get into it, okay? Because that's a problem because with all the routers we've been playing with, we have a webpage. And in order to get to that webpage, we need an IP address, right? Well, switches don't need IP addresses. They don't use IP addresses at all. They use MAC addresses. So what we're going to do is we're gonna give this switch an IP address not because the switch needs an IP address, but because it gives us a way to get to the switch so we can configure it. This is what we call a managed switch. You can get two otherwise identical switches. One is an unmanaged switch. There is no interface, you just plug in and use it and it works great. Managed switches, well, they're gonna be more expensive, for one thing, but they're gonna have a lot of features. This VLAN is one of them. So we need to get into this. So to get into this particular guy, I had to actually go online. I looked at the model number and I said, "Where does it get its IP address?" And the answer was, is it will get it through DHCP. So that's why I have it plugged into my router, which is passing out DHCP. Once I got that, I was able to get the IP address by just going into the status of my router, and I saw that there was something there, and I just opened up a web browser and I typed in its IP address. All I did was type in 192.168.1.114. And because I knew the password, I was able to get in, and now I'm actually talking to the switch. Isn't that kind of cool? We don't think about talking to switches. We talk to routers all the time, but rarely switches. Okay, first of all, I wanna set up a VLAN. So VLANs will get a number. So we just call them VLAN 1, VLAN 2, VLAN 3. These are the defaults that come with this particular system. So by default, it has a VLAN 1, which every port is a member of. And then we have this VLAN 2. So the goal here is, is we define our VLANs. It's kind of nice that this particular switch already makes two important VLANs for us. The default, VLAN 1, which everybody's a part of, and then this other VLAN 2. The trick now is we've gotta go in here and assign, say, I don't know how many phones I've got. Let's say I've got eight phones, I'm gonna assign ports. And they actually have numbers, 1 through 24. And I'm going to assign the first eight ports to this VLAN 2 so I can plug all my phones in there and keep it physically separated from all the other ports. It's gonna take a little while. Let's see if we can figure this out. So we've already got a VLAN 2. Now, the trick is, is how do we go in and set those? All right, so I've got VLAN ID 1, let's go to VLAN 2. This is my voice VLAN, and I think it's gonna be right here. So all I have to do is go through and select those ports and apply. The moment I do this, if I plug somebody into VLAN 1, some of these other ports, and I plug another computer into VLAN 2, they won't be able to talk to each other. It's as though they're two totally physical separate switches. There's no interconnectivity at all. VLANs are very, very powerful. And as a matter of fact, you can do things, like put in four or five switches, and you can set up six VLANs that will actually span. It gets really crazy. The important thing for the exam is to make sure that you're aware that VLANs exist. If you're handed a switch and you start plugging devices into it and they're not seeing each other, there's a good chance you might have some VLAN configurations there. All right, there's more to play with in a managed switch in just the VLANs. Another big thing that we like to play with a lot is port security. So let me show you what we have on these particular ones. So I'm gonna come in here and I'm going to start up port security. So I'm gonna select port security for everybody, but the one I'm currently working on, Set that to Enable and hit Apply. Oh, it's gonna take a long time. Okay, we're gonna let it run. Port security does a couple of things. Number one, I can tell this switch to go listen. Whatever computers that are plugged into you right now, you memorize those MAC addresses. And if anybody else, other than the MAC addresses that are on here right now, try to plug in, just turn the port off, just disable the port. Or send me a note saying, "Ooh, there's a unauthorized MAC address," or something like that to let me know that there are devices that shouldn't be playing on this switch trying to come in. So port security is a big issue when it comes to these guys. There's a lot more to do with switches, but again, come take my Net+ so we can play with these a lot more deeply than we do within the A+ exam. Instructor: Thanks for that, Mike. Now, another network technology that I'd like to take a moment to talk about is SDN, or software-defined networking. If you think about our traditional network and its equipment, all the routers, and switches, and gateways, and ASAs, and everything that actually routes the data, every single one of those devices, if they're a traditional device, has to be manually configured, right? And it also has to be manually reconfigured if there's updates or changes to network schemas. And along with those manual configurations or reconfigurations also comes a possibility of good old-fashioned human error, right? We are error-prone people and that can happen, and that can be actually devastating when it's on one of these critical pieces of routing or switching equipment. So what we've come up with as an industry is SDN, whereby we actually separate the control plane from the data plane on these devices. So for instance, we still have the switches that are programmable and have the data flowing through them, but we have a separate server or a separate device that does all the controlling of the devices, so that we have the reduction in manual configuration and reconfiguration we would have to do. We have ease of access to central management of all of our network devices, and we have a very large and dynamic scalability to our network as well. So SDN is one of those buzzwords you're gonna hear more and more about. It's most likely on the exam, but it is a very cool technology that is slowly being grown more and more each day, and it's something you definitely should keep your eye on.