-: It's easy to say that the internet is simply a big wide area network, and that's technically correct, but the internet is actually broken up into what we call tiers, and what I wanna do is take a moment and kind of give you an idea of how the internet really works because, well, it's funny, and it's interesting. Let's start with the good old USA. So here's the map of the United States, and around the United States are about 10 different companies. Now, these 10 companies provide internet, not really to you and I, but they provide internet to very large customers. What's interesting about these companies is that none of them actually provide complete coverage of the United States. However, between these 10, they do cover the entire United States, which makes for an interesting situation. The problem is, is because none of these big carriers cover the entire United States, they have to work together. Now, keep in mind what makes us funny is that these people are competitors. They hate each other's guts. They want to crush each other, but they have to work together because nobody can cover the United States completely, and as a result of that, these different companies that are competitors create what are called peering agreements. So these peering agreements basically go, look, I hate you, and you hate me. However, let's go ahead and allow each other to let each other's traffic go through, and that way together we can cover more of the United States. By the way, this is not unique to the United States. It's just that I know the US peering better than any place else. You have the same problem in Europe and every place else as well. So you have all of these guys that are peering. Now, the problem is, is that they have to have a place where they interconnect. Think about this for a minute. In order for them to share stuff, they have to interconnect, and there are these places that are dotted around the United States called network operation centers, or NOCs, and the idea behind these places is that they're owned by third parties. So these folks will get together. They'll build a big building, and it's gonna have lots of generators 'cause you never want this thing to go down and big semi-trailer trucks full of diesel to power the generators, and it's hurricane-proof and earthquake-proof, and there's lots of security guards with automatic weapons. I mean, these are scary places, but we need them desperately because what they will do is they'll go, ah, we are a NOC, and then these different competing companies will come in, and then they will build routers inside these NOCs, and you then run a connection between these two sets of routers, and that's how we interconnect. I've been to these places. They're absolutely amazing. I've been to one, and you walk up into a floor, and there's nothing but these huge, massive, you know, half-million-dollar routers, and they're behind concertina wire. (chuckles) Everybody puts fences and concertina wire around, and I'm looking at this one, and here's one company, and here's another company, and there's one little piece of single-mode fiber that's interconnecting between 'em, just kind of hanging between the routers, going through the concertina wire, and I'm looking at my very armed guard who's acting as my guide, and I'm like, "Wait a minute. Are you telling me all I would have to do?" And I started to reach towards it, and I was on the floor, okay? So these are pretty serious situations. So what we have is all of these tier-one people who work together. Now, the next step we're gonna have is tier two. So tier two are going to be entities that aren't quite as big as a tier-one provider, but they do have a fairly good coverage area, and they don't completely cover the United States, but they tend to have big places, and they tend to be in multiple spots at once. Tier-twos have not come up with a peering agreement with the tier-one providers. In essence, they have to pay for their internet just like you and I do. However, they do have some peering agreements with some folks. So if you don't pay for anything, you're tier one. If you pay for a few people in a few places, but otherwise you're peering with others, you're tier two. There's lots and lots of tier-twos out there. They show up at these network operation centers just as anybody else does, but they're not quite as big. The last one, and the one that you're probably more familiar with is tier three. Tier three are the big internet service providers. So they have names like Comcast or AT&T, and they tend to have lots of presence all over the place, but they're not totally interconnected. Tier-threes make their money by selling internet services to individuals and corporations. So they almost have no peering agreements, and they're going up to the tier-two and tier-one, and they're paying for their internet. So we have tier one. We have tier two, and we have tier three, and then at the bottom of the food chain of the internet are people like you and me who pay our monthly bills so that we can get on the internet. Now, keep in mind what I'm giving you is a quick overview. It is very fuzzy here. Somebody who's a tier-two today could be a tier-three tomorrow or vice versa. These guys are constantly in litigation. They are constantly arguing with each other, and this is a very fluid thing, but in general, if you're not paying for anything, you're tier one. If you have some peering, but you're paying for a little bit, you're tier two, and if you're pretty much paying for everything you've got, you're tier three, or you're one of us.