-: Folks, I've gotta be honest.

My first computer build ages ago did not go so well.

I'm pretty sure those parts weren't supposed

to sizzle.

And it can honestly be a very daunting task getting hands on

with hardware for the first time.

And you know, I've got a ton of equipment here,

a ton of components, and two great systems,

so I thought we could do a quick tour of each.

Now, going forward, I want to refer to this one as open

and this one as closed.

And for simplicity's sake you can see why.

This is a close cased environment

and this is an open case environment.

We're going to be building a PC together

as we continue on this series with the open case,

but I'm also gonna be showcasing you

some new features and we might be messing

with some of the components here in the closed case as well.

So just remember, open and closed.

Now that we've got our systems in place here

and made sure we've practiced proper power handling

and that's all disconnected,

we can actually take a look at these.

Now, first thing you're going to notice about this one

is it is a serious machine.

Now, a lot of these components are gonna look foreign

to you 'cause you've probably never seen them before,

but I'm going to point them out as we go real quick.

The first thing you're going notice on this

is this bad boy right here.

This is the graphics processing unit or GPU.

This is the thing that allows whoever owns this case

to play some really high-end video games.

We move over here we've got some RAM,

four Rams sticks you can see right here.

And this is kind of like the temporary area

that the CPU has to work on things.

And here's our CPU.

This one is actually liquid cooled.

This is a very high-end, very cool system.

But you know what?

It's a little hard to see everything in it.

Now, let's take a look at those same components

in our open case.

But before we do, just remember before we get hands on

with any piece of hardware,

we want to make sure we practice those safety procedures.

And I'm actually standing on an anti-static mat

so there's no risk whatsoever

of any electrical damage to this motherboard.

So as we take a look here,

quite a big difference from our liquid cooled CPU over

in the closed case to our air cooled CPU here

in the open case.

So this primarily relies on air flow to keep it cool.

We also have our RAM here,

and you can tell these ram sticks are the old

what I like to call pea soup green or nan soup green.

So these probably weren't meant for gaming

or anything too extensive like those over there.

But a lot of similarities here,

especially on the backside when we start looking

into some of the connectivity ports.

All right, so let's take a look at some

of the back panel connectors for both of these machines.

Now, if we look up here at the top,

we've got something that really doesn't get used

too much anymore,

but this is actually a mini-DIN port or a PS/2 port.

This is used for old style mother, or mouses and keyboards,

excuse me.

We also have some USB ports up here, a type-C USB,

which is one of the new standard ports, here.

We have HDMI, which most of you're probably familiar

with HDMI or DVI because you have those at home connecting

to your TVs or your home theater systems.

This particular one actually has connectors

for antennas for wifi.

So this motherboard actually has wifi enabled connectivity

in it.

And then we have some more USB ports

and some actual audio connectors here.

Now this entire part that you see right here,

it's a little hard to outline,

but this part here is called the IO shield.

And the IO shield is actually very specific

to the type of motherboard made.

But it kind of blocks a little bit of a view for us.

So let's go over here and look at the open case.

So if we take a look over here at our open case,

we see that we have, again,

another two USB ports right here

and a mini-DIN port, just like we had on the close case

or a PS/2 port.

Now, you might be wondering why all these USB ports

on this device have a bunch of different colors.

Well, it's because they either offer various features

or speeds, and we'll get into that in later on

in the series.

Next up here we actually have an old school VGA connection.

Very cool to see.

And right below it we have a DVI connection, as well.

Moving over, we see that we get into a couple of clusters

of USB here, and we have not only a USBC port,

which is the brand new standard,

it's really awesome, but we also have a couple

of the old USB three or two ports here, as well.

We have another HDMI connector here.

Very cool.

So this motherboard supports video.

And then up here we have our RJ-45 ethernet connection.

This is where your LAN cable,

your ethernet cable is going to plug

in from here to your router

or to whatever's providing you internet service,

so that's awesome.

And we have a couple of more USB ports here.

Next we have some of our audio ports.

We have a couple of different,

you'll notice these are color coded because a lot

of manufacturers still use colors on those cables

and adapters that you plug into these little audio devices.

Moving along, you'll see that we actually have,

well, it's a little bit older of a GPU

than you saw in that other one,

but it actually has a VGA adapter to it, as well.

It has a S-video here and it also has a another DVI.

And then you'll notice on one of our expansion slots here,

we have an extra USB root hub.

And this is really cool because if your device doesn't come

with enough USB ports for you,

you can easily add one of these expansion cards in,

and look at that, instant three ports

or instant four ports or however much it supports.

And that's it.

Here we have our closed and our open systems,

and you've seen pretty much all that they entail.

So going forward, we're going to strip

this open system down and we're going to build it

together step by step.

But hopefully this little tour of a PC helps you out

and helps you recognize some of those common parts,

adapters, and components that we're going to get

into later in the series.