Narrator: A cloud is a big deal,

when you have a cloud,

inside this cloud are the servers and the storage

and all the people keeping this running and all this.

It's a big deal.

So ownership of a cloud

is something to take into consideration.

In a private cloud situation, here's my little cloud.

So let's just say I've got a whole bunch of computers here

and I've got this all set up.

Now, we can generate

our own virtual machines anytime we want,

but it's private, so keep out.

It is just for us.

So it's just within my organization

that we can use this private cloud.

The next type is a public cloud.

A public cloud is pretty much the exact opposite

of a private cloud.

With a public cloud, and these are things like,

Amazon S3 and Microsoft Azure.

These places are open for business

and anybody with a credit card can connect in.

They can set up their own VMs,

they can upload their web apps.

They can do anything they want do,

and it includes all kinds of stuff like,

well, security add-ons

and all kinds of fun stuff.

So a public is very, very popular.

We see them all the time.

Next is a hybrid cloud.

A hybrid cloud is a little bit from column A

and a little bit from column B.

What we have is one big cloud,

but some of this cloud is segregated as private

and some of the cloud,

maybe we don't need all this capacity.

So we offer this up as a public,

so that we can make some money while we have our cloud.

Now, fourth is a community cloud.

The problem with setting up your own cloud

is that it's expensive.

We're talking hundreds of thousands of dollars,

even for the most base type of robust cloud.

So a lot of smaller organizations, businesses,

government entities, instead of making their own,

they'll join up as a community,

3, 4, 5, 10 different organizations.

Everybody puts in a little money and they build one cloud.

So in this particular case,

it's like having your own private club.

So it's just members only,

and if you can be a part of that member,

then you can be a part of that cloud.