-: If there's one place where cloud computing

has made a huge impact, it's in the world of applications.

For decades, guys like me had to drive to the software store

and buy a box and pull out floppy disks

or later, optical disks, or later, thumb drives.

And we went through this process of installing our software

and then we ran our software.

We bought the software, and it was okay.

I mean, it worked, but because of the cloud

we could do some new things

with applications we hadn't even considered before.

One of the big areas that really have changed things

is in the world of synchronization.

Today, we use cloud storage like crazy.

Every operating system has their own cloud storage solution.

iCloud for Macs, OneDrive for Windows systems,

Google Drive for everybody, and even third parties

like Dropbox have made a huge impact

in your ability to just put stuff on the cloud.

What a convenience that I don't have to worry

about being with one particular laptop or one desktop.

I put something on the cloud, I log in, and I can get to it.

That's fantastic.

But if you're gonna be doing that

you have a big issue of synchronization.

Lemme show you what I'm talking about.

Okay, so I've actually installed the Dropbox tool

on my system here, but I'm gonna go ahead

and sign in and it's gonna ask for a confirmation.

I got my phone here, don't worry about it.

And it loves me.

So I could open my Dropbox,

but what I'm more interested in doing

is getting it to update.

So I want you to watch right down here.

Do you see the little Dropbox right here?

You'll see the little circle in blue there?

This is the big deal

when it comes to any form of cloud storage,

as synchronization is key.

Now, if I'm the only person using a particular folder

in the cloud, it's not that big of a deal,

but it can be a huge deal

if multiple people are accessing something at the same time.

And different types of systems

have different ways of dealing with it.

Dropbox, for example, if two people open up the same file,

if one person saves it,

it will be saved as what is called a conflicted copy.

Now, other ones will have different ways to do it.

You can even configure it.

Like for example, with OneDrive

you can say whoever saves last wins.

Little things like that.

So it's always a bit of a variance.

So we have to be careful

when it comes to the different types of synchronization

that are gonna be taking place.

The other big thing that comes into play

with applications is the concept of a lot of things

that we used to do locally, we now do offsite.

Probably the biggest single one is email.

For years I was always working

with my local email server that was in my office

and that was where we took care

of all our email and stuff like that.

Those days are pretty much gone.

For example, I'm a big believer in Office 365

and if you take a look, this is actually my email.

Yep, that's me.

Michael Emmet totalsim.com.

This is, you can see it's in a webpage.

So that makes my life a lot easier.

I still have the configuration issues

but now if I wanna configure my server

I go online and I set up configuration in there,

creating new email accounts, whatever I might need to do

and I don't have to deal with a physical server.

I throw it up on the cloud and my life is a lot easier.

Now, it's not just email.

For example, if you wanna get groovy on offsite,

here is an example of a offsite domain controller.

My actual domain,

instead of running my own local domain controller,

I just throw that up on the cloud as well

and it actually saves me

a tremendous amount of money by doing that.

I'm just up on the cloud, I got everything I need,

I can log in.

It's absolutely magical

in terms of the amount of workload

it takes for me by just putting these things offsite.

The last one, if you really want to get cool

when it comes to offsite, is a offsite virtual desktop.

In this case,

what we're talking about is opening up a web browser

and actually getting to your desktop itself.

So if I wanted to see a virtual desktop,

probably looks something kinda like this.

So you can see I'm in a web browser,

but it's still a Windows desktop.

Pretty cool, huh?

So that'd be the case,

I don't even care what device I have.

I can always get to my desktop on a tablet,

on a Mac machine, it doesn't matter.

I can get to my Windows desktop using virtual desktops.

The other place where applications really come into play

is the concept of streaming applications.

So traditionally the cloud has been nice

because at least I could have an application

that's gonna be showing up as a web app

or I could download applications from the internet.

That was true, but streaming kind of comes between the two.

So probably a best example

of a streaming app would be something like,

for example, take a look right here.

So here is actually PowerPoint Online.

Now it's streaming because I don't have the full app here.

It only pulls down what it needs as it needs it.

Streaming applications just aren't for things like desktops

and laptops running Windows and OS 10 and stuff like that.

It also works in the world of smart devices.

So smartphones and tablets also have streaming.

Now, how the streaming manifests

will be different depending on your OS.

But for example, if we take a look right here,

on my Android machine, here's a popular game, Clash Royale.

Now I can go ahead and install it as you see there.

Or if I want to

I can just click on try it now, and oh, it's a noisy game.

I'm gonna turn down the noise.

And it will just go ahead and start the game.

So there's no actual installation involved.

So streaming works both for desktop and laptops

as well as in your smartphone and in your tablet world.