-: When it comes to hardware,

laptops are in many ways identical to desktop systems,

and in other ways very, very different.

And in this episode,

which I'm gonna call "Laptop Hardware Troubleshooting,"

we're gonna be breaking down a couple of laptops here.

And I wanna be talking about some of the components

that you might be replacing within a laptop,

and then talking about some of the issues

that come into play when it comes time

to start breaking open one of these things.

So, a couple of words of wisdom before we even do anything:

Number one: use caution.

Laptops are all different on the inside.

They are going to have gazillions of little screws.

They're going to use double-sided tape.

They're going to use single-sided tape.

They're gonna have tiny little extremely weak connectors

for plugging things in,

and you need to really take your time

and be careful whenever you're dealing

with the inside of a laptop.

Now, I'm just gonna be kind of breaking this laptop down.

In fact, I got another one to show you

on a few other things.

But normally, when you're going into a laptop,

you're going in for a reason.

You already have some type of symptom

that's pointing towards a particular component,

and you're going in and you wanna fix it.

So, I'm gonna be a bit more generic here.

I'm just gonna be playing operation and pulling parts apart.

But normally, when you're working on a laptop,

you're going in with a particular goal in mind.

Now, before you ever pick up a screwdriver,

the first place you need to go is online.

And there's a few places I wanna talk about.

The first place I wanna talk about

is that all manufacturers provide some degree

of maintenance guides for laptops.

So, lots of stuff; know where the parts are,

that's not terribly interesting.

But like, this right here.

So, here are all the internal major components

for this particular laptop.

And not only is it all the different components,

but even part numbers,

so that if I want to, I can actually call the manufacturer

and see if they have them.

Now, that's one good thing.

The other good thing about these types of guides

is that they're usually going to give you some idea

of how to remove and replace certain parts.

And this is a good example here.

It's gonna talk about

how to replace, for example, your battery.

Well, that's an easy one.

Or how to take off a cover, replace a hard drive.

There's another one.

The other big challenge you run into with laptops is parts.

Now, certain parts, like a 2 1/2 inch SATA drive

is identical no matter where you get it.

So, you wanna avoid buying things like hard drives

directly from the OEMs 'cause they're expensive.

Same thing with RAM.

All these guys take very standardized RAM.

They're gonna be SO-DIMMs. You're gonna have to go in there,

see out what kind of RAM they need,

pop one off, take a look at it.

It's probably gonna be DDR-2, DDR-3, DDR-4,

depending on how old of a laptop you're dealing with.

But you're gonna need parts.

So, you can get a lot of standard parts,

but there's also a lot of non-standard parts.

If you've got a broken case, if you've got a broken screen,

if you've got a broken touch pad;

stuff like that is not standardized.

So, where I go to get this stuff;

in fact, my first step is always eBay.

I love eBay because there's a lot

of these exact same systems out there.

I'm just gonna see if I can find what's out there.

So, I just did a quick search,

and here's spare batteries, spare AC adapters.

Here's somebody just selling the screen.

Even if I have to, a lot of times, be aware it's cheaper

to buy a complete other identical laptop

just to pull one part, especially if it's dead.

Ebay sells tons and tons of dead laptops.

Pick one just because you need the fan out of it

or something like that.

Somebody will probably sell it to you for 30 bucks.

It's a pretty good deal.

All right.

So, with all this in mind,

there's a couple of tools I have around.

I like power screwdrivers, just 'cause I'm lazy.

I've got an iFixit toolkit.

Again, I make no money from iFixit;

I just like these guys.

And the other thing I'm gonna be doing

is I've got a piece of tape right here,

and it's just regular old one-sided tape,

and I've got it tacked down a little bit.

The reason I do that

is because there are going to be a gazillion screws,

and I have to have some form of organization,

and the tape is nothing more

than a place for me to drop screws,

so as I'm taking things apart,

I know what I'm doing roughly.

Also, by putting them in an order, it gives me a rough idea

as to first in, first out kind of a thing.