-: After looking at all the instructions, I'm going to have to pop a battery on this thing. All right, there's the battery. No great excitement there. Alright. And then after reading the instructions, it says I have to pry this off using a spud ger. Now I could use a spud ger, or I could just use my (clicking sound) -: drudgery fingers. Okay, HP, that's how we do it. Got it. Wow. Nooky here, kids. I can already see there's a lot of stuff in here that's gonna be interesting to me. I guarantee you that that's a hard drive. So let's go with that one 'cause he's gonna be easy. (cheerful music playing) (whirring sound of drill) So as I pull this drive out I can see it's a regular old SATA drive, but it has this weird little proprietary SATA connector. So regular old SATA drive, no big deal there. Just go ahead and go get another 2 1/2 SATA drive. Slide this in. Now this has its own little heat shield. I'll have to pull this off, put the new drive in the shield and you've just replaced a hard drive. How hard is that? So this is RAM. This is just an SODIMM, so I'm gonna pry that guy out. This is unfortunate. On this particular HP, it only takes a single stick so that could be pretty limiting. What I wanna show you is something you'll see that's more common on laptops. Take a look at this guy right here. So this actually has two sticks. Now, I'm not gonna say you're gonna buy a laptop based on the number of RAM slots it provides, but this is a big issue when it comes to expandability and something that I actually do consider when I'm getting myself a laptop. Okay, so back to this guy. All right, so real time clock in. See if I can pry that guy out. I actually read the instructions and it said it used double-sided tape and it does. A little bit of sticky. So these little tiny connectors are real common in laptops and you just pull. So if you need to replace a battery in your laptop that's easy enough to do. All right, so the next thing, oh yeah, right over here. If you take a look right here, that is a mini PCI Express slot. Now, it's an expansion slot and you can put all kinds of stuff in here. On almost any of these laptops you're gonna see mini PCI for WAN cards. You're gonna see 'EM for Bluetooth controllers, even cellular WANs can be plugged into these things. So out it goes. Now, I pretty much guarantee that this one is a wireless network card, 80211, and these are antennae. Now there's one I wanna show you on this guy over here. This is something you don't see nearly as much as you used to, but this is an optical drive. And if you wanna replace an optical drive, I already took, there were three screws I had to take out. And it's even got the part number right on here. I'll probably go on eBay, I'll bet there's a few hundred of these out there for sale right now if I need to ever replace optical drives on a laptop.