-: Oh, hey everybody.

Listen, in this episode,

I wanna talk about how the many ways

we connect all of our wireless devices together.

I'm gonna be concentrating on smartphones here,

but this would also work perfectly well

with just about any tablet as well,

so keep that in mind.

So we really have two big choices

when it comes to connecting our mobile devices

to other stuff,

and that's gonna be wired and that's gonna be wireless.

So let's talk about the easy one first, and that's wired.

At the base of pretty much every smart device

is either going to be, these days,

it's either gonna be a micro USB,

it's going to be a proprietary Apple Lightning connection,

or it's gonna be USB-C.

So between those three connectors,

you can pretty much connect these guys into almost anything.

Now, why you connect can often make a big difference.

Number one, we connect for power.

When that being the case,

it's just making electricity, not too terribly exciting.

If we're connecting to desktop systems,

we might be transferring files,

we might be doing synchronization.

I've got a whole episode on that.

What's important to us right now

is understand that we can make these connections

and they pretty much work universally.

Now, one of the objectives

actually mentions the phrase mini-USB for a smart device.

Haven't seen that in a long time, CompTIA,

but I will make a mention of it.

I'm sure someone's gonna holler at me and go,

"I got this tablet from 1947 that has a mini-USB."

Okay, okay.

The bottom line is is that make sure you're comfortable

with USB-C, micro-USB, Lightning

are gonna be your three big types of connectors

you're gonna be running into.

And of course,

if you've got a late generation Apple product,

you might have yourself a Thunderbolt connection,

which looks just like a USB-C.

Bottom line is,

make sure you can recognize those connections.

What's more interesting to me is wireless connections,

'cause we can do a lot of different stuff.

We've got near-field communication, we've got Bluetooth,

we've got something called infrared,

and we've got good old 802.11,

so let's go through each one of these.

So first of all, NFC or near-field communication.

While we do cover that in other episodes,

NFC really takes a life its own

when we start getting into smart devices.

Things like tap to print, tap to pay,

things like that are very, very powerful tools.

The only thing you really have to remember

is that you have to make sure NFC is turned on.

So I'm gonna get here on my Android device,

and as you can see right here,

it says, "Allow data exchange

when it touches another device," right there.

So I've got it turned on.

Now you can do some pretty cool things

if you've got NFC running.

So let's see here.

I got a YouTube video.

So I've got some YouTube video.

Now this is a really cool YouTube video,

and I wanna share it with my buddy who's got this phone.

Don't try this with an Apple, by the way.

This is Android-only.

Now watch what happens when I press 'em together.

All I do is push that over,

(device beeping)

and now this system has the exact same page.

It's a pretty convenient feature.

So NFC, the big thing to remember about that

is you have to be physically very, very close together.

They don't really have to touch.

They just make you do that

to get them close enough so that they'll actually work.

Okay, next one is Bluetooth.

Now Bluetooth, gosh, I got a lot of Bluetooth stuff.

I got a Bluetooth speaker, got a Bluetooth headset,

I got some very expensive Pixel earbuds here

for my Pixel phone.

Now the thing about Bluetooth more than anything else

is that you have to go through the pairing process.

So let's pair something up here real quick.

So on my Android, I gotta get to Bluetooth.

So for example, in this particular case,

I wanna pair with this other phone,

so the first thing I'm gonna do

is I'm gonna click on pair a new device,

and there's my Nexus, and it gives me a six-digit code,

so I'm gonna hit pair,

and now these two devices are connected.

The thing you have to remember about Bluetooth

is Bluetooth is a connection,

but then there is also a profile that comes along.

So just because two devices connect, that's great,

but then they communicate with each other,

and they say, "Well, what can I offer you?"

So something like a pair of speakers, when I pair that,

I'm just gonna have a pair of speakers go,

"All I can do is output audio."

So these tend to be much lower security.

For example, with a lot of times,

when you're plugging in a Bluetooth speaker,

you don't even get a pairing code,

'cause there's just not that much risk.

But when I'm putting these two phones together,

I'm allowing these things, for example, to transfer files,

to share contact information.

I can use the other phone to dial to Africa if I want to,

and that's why those PIN codes become much more important.

Don't panic if you're pairing a device

and you don't have a PIN code.

It's probably just speakers or something like that.

Also, keep in mind that if you pair to a device,

these devices will keep that pairing information

pretty much for forever,

and a lot of times, things might change.

Anytime you're having a problem

connecting to any device using Bluetooth,

the first thing you do is you go in

and you look at all your previously connected devices.

So here I got previously connected devices.

Here's all these ones,

and what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna go

and I'm gonna delete that

and then try a repair from the top,

and that usually fixes Bluetooth right out of the box.

Okay, the next one's kind of interesting.

It's IR, or infrared.

For, gosh, the first decade of phones,

most phones had an infrared,

which was a line of sight connection,

just like the TV remote that you use to control your TV,

and infrared was wonderfully popular.

I loved it.

In fact, I tortured every sushi restaurant on earth

because I kept changing the channels

using the infrared capability.

Unfortunately, infrared is fading out as an option.

We don't see it very often.

However, if you do see infrared, particularly on the exam,

remember it has to be line of sight

and it's a very low speed connection.

It's good for changing channels on a TV, but not much else.

The last one is 802.11.

So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna use my iPhone,

and I'm gonna make a connection to a wireless SSID.

So I go under settings and I look up here at wifi,

and you can see right now I'm connected

to a network called TotalWifi,

which is the wireless network here at Total Seminars.

But you see I have a bunch of other ones, too.

So it's trivial to connect to an SSID using a smart device.

They all have some feature in there

that shows you all of your wireless networks.

Press the one you want,

and make sure you have the personal shared key,

if it needs one, and you're up and cooking.

It's that easy.

Also, remember, the other problem we have

is the same problem we have with any wifi connection,

is that once you connect to it, you've made a profile,

and once that profile's connected,

if somebody down the road,

that coffee shop that you like, if they change the key,

you're gonna have to delete the profile

and then reestablish the connection

to make sure you've got the right passphrase typed in.

Otherwise, it's just gonna sit there and torture you.

Okay, now if you wanna get a little bit bigger than this,

now it's time to start talking about cellular connections.

In particular, the two big things that are really handy

are hotspots and tethers.

So on this phone right here, I'm gonna go ahead,

and let's take a look at my tethering and portable hotspot.

So right now you'll see USB tethering.

If I turn this on, did you hear that?

What's actually taking place is this computer,

this laptop right here, which is connected to this phone,

he now has an internet connection

through this guy's cellular.

So tethering means you've gotta be physically connected.

Tether like a leash.

Keep that in mind.

The other option, let's go back here.

Portable wifi hotspot.

Now I can just turn this on,

and it's gonna start passing out an SSID.

Now in that case,

what's happening is you don't need a connection.

Any device can simply tie into this device's SSID,

which is called AndroidAP on this one by default,

and everybody's connected and it's fantastic.

You can actually make changes.

If we take a look, it says, "Set up Wi-Fi hotspot."

So if I wanted to, if I wanted to change the name

to something a little bit more distinctive,

like MikesPhone, something to give people a clue,

I could do that.

I can even change the past phrase right here,

and I'm up and cooking.

So make sure you're comfortable with the difference

between hotspot versus tethering.

Hotspot, lots of people can get on the internet through you,

tethering only one machine at a time.

Also, keep in mind

is that there's always gonna be some kind of airplane mode.

See if we can dig up airplane mode on this device,

and it's right here up at the top.

See where it says airplane mode?

We turn that on, that's gonna shut off my 802.11,

that's gonna shut off my Bluetooth,

that's gonna shut off NFC.

Anything that's making radio waves will be cut off,

one nice shot.

Okay, so that's the basic concepts

in terms of connecting for your types of mobile devices.

The big takeaway here is remember,

you've got wired connections,

and the wired connections are invariably

gonna be connecting to desktops, things like that,

laptops, whatever it might be.

That's gonna be for file transfer, that type of thing.

Then we're gonna have wireless,

and our big ones are going to be NFC,

remember, real close, you gotta tap it.

Bluetooth, keep in mind your pairing functions.

802.11, works exactly like it does on a desktop or a laptop.

There's really no change.

And then if you actually have a really, really old phone,

you've got infrared.