-: It seems today that everyone has a smartphone,

but the problem we have today is

that we seem to be broken into two camps.

There are the folks who use Android,

and there are the folks who use iOS.

So in this episode I'm gonna give a tour

of an Android device.

Now, if you're an Android user,

I hope I'm boring you to death.

This is really for iOS folks just

to kind of wrap their head around it a little bit.

The important thing I want you

to pick up from this is

that these two very different operating systems share lots

of very similar functions,

although they may do it in a little bit of a different way.

So I've got my Android device here.

Now, the one thing I wanna tell you

about Android is that, to me, the big difference

between Android versus iOS is customization.

Android devices are very customized.

And people who like to tweak

on their phones are the folks

who tend to want to go with Android.

Folks who like iOS are people,

they want it one way, and it works that way,

and it works that way like a tank, and we love it.

So one of the things I wanna show you

as we take a look at the screen

is what you're looking at is a pretty standard screen.

These are very customizable.

For example, if I want to,

I've got this widget up at the top.

If I wanna resize it, I could do things like that.

I can actually remove the widget completely if I want.

There, it's gone.

I could add more icons at the top.

The other thing is

that the desktop is a little bit different.

So on an Android box,

the only thing you're gonna be seeing up here

is stuff that I put there.

If you wanna see everything,

we hit what's called the doc, and we click on this.

This is all the installed programs.

So this is quite a bit different

than people who use iOS devices.

So if I wanna put something on my desktop,

I'm gonna come in here,

and then I'm just gonna move it over

to whatever screen I wanna put it onto.

The other big difference

from an Android versus iOS is folders.

On my iOS phone,

I can make a folder and put programs into it.

It's a little bit different with an Android.

So watch what happens here.

So I've got these three different programs running

on the second page of my desktop.

If I wanna make a folder,

or at least the closest equivalent,

I just push them on top of each other,

and now I have a folder within Android.

The other big thing that comes up are notifications.

I wanna know what's happening.

Do I have an upcoming appointment?

Is there something running in the background?

Is there a download going on?

That all has to do with the notification screen

on an Android.

So on this one, I don't have a lot going on.

You can see it in the upper left hand corner.

I hit a pull-down.

And yep, it's recording the screen

so you guys can see what I'm talking about here.

I also have, when I do a pull-down,

settings for a lot of critical things that I need to do.

I can turn wifi on and off, Bluetooth.

There's my flashlight.

I can reduce and increase screen brightness.

That's all handled right there.

Now, if you're an iOS person,

I know you guys love gestures.

And unfortunately,

unless you're using third-party applications,

the amount of gestures you see on an Android

is very small compared to the typical iOS device.

But there's a few.

For example, I can scroll back and forth on my desktop.

I can sweep up from the bottom

and see all of my installed programs.

And I can sweep down to see the notification area.

That's about it in terms of default for an Android device.

Okay, let's talk about applications.

Just like in iOS, there is a store to go to,

and in the Android world, it's called the Google Play Store.

So here's my Google Play Store.

And what I've done is I've selected

a particular program I want.

I can search for anything I want.

This happened to be up at the top.

So I'm gonna click on this little game.

Now, one of the things you'll notice here.

It has both streaming, the Try Now,

or I can physically install it.

So I'm gonna install this little game.

Android doesn't have nearly the strict controls

that iOS does when it comes to their store.

So there's a little bit more

of a risk installing applications

from Android than there is for iOS,

although they're getting better all the time.

Ah, okay. So now I've got it.

I can go ahead and hit Open.

And whatever this game is, I don't even want to go there.

So I'm gonna be right back.

Here's my individual little game I just installed.

To get rid of it, I click on it.

I can hit Uninstall right here.

Or I could hold it down and just drag over to Uninstall,

and the game's gone.

Now, when you install an application in Android,

you're gonna have to give it certain permissions.

For example, if you've got a GPS application,

it's gonna wanna know where you're located.

Or if you have something where you wanna deal with contacts,

it's gonna need access to your contacts.

All applications need permissions.

And for years Android was very much behind iOS

in terms of the granularity,

but with the later versions of Android,

it does a pretty good job.

So let's take a look at some permissions.

So I'm gonna go into Settings.

And here's Apps.

And I can pick any individual one of these, click on it.

Now, here's where I can actually force a stop.

If I want to completely stop it,

I can do it here.

But here are my permissions.

So on this particular application,

it has access to my phone, to storage, and to location.

And I can individually turn these things off if I want.

Be careful about playing with permissions

on individual applications.

Sometimes it's gonna keep them

from working the way you want them to work,

and that can be a challenge sometimes.

All right, so the next thing I wanna talk

about is the concept of accounts.

When you get a new Android phone,

you are compelled to create a Google account

to which this phone is associated.

There are ways to get around it,

but I wouldn't recommend it.

So you've gotta make some kind of Google account.

Now, I've gone ahead during the installation of this phone,

when I first got it, and I had to set it up,

I went ahead and created a Google account for it,

but you can apply other accounts

through your account settings.

So we come down to Settings.

And here's Accounts.

Now, right now I only have a Google account.

But if I wanted to add an account,

you'll notice that it has a bunch

of preset types of accounts.

I could set up to an Exchange Server.

I could set up emails with either IMAP or POP3.

If you're unfamiliar with those, I have episodes on that.

I could even add more Google accounts.

The last thing I wanna talk

about is the concept of backup and reset.

Backup and reset are important features.

Everybody's lost a phone.

Everybody's dropped a phone into a pond.

Everybody's cracked a phone where it's not functional.

And in that case, a backup can be really, really important.

Now, with Android, you will get a backup,

but you have to turn it on by default.

So let's go ahead and take a look.

And it's right here at Backup & reset.

So right now, I've already turned on backup

for my particular device here.

And if I turn that off, I'm not going to have any backup.

This backs up everything to Google Drive.

And it does a pretty good job.

This is another place

where I kind of like iOS better than Android.

Traditionally, with iOS, backup features were amazing.

You could literally lose your phone, buy a new phone,

log in with your account, and get everything back,

all the icons in the right place, everything.

And until the most recent versions of Android,

Android couldn't keep up.

Did a pretty good job,

but not quite as great as you could do with iOS.

Okay, let's talk about reset.

This is something that gets people in trouble

with phones all the time.

So if you take a look right here,

you'll see it says Factory data reset.

So you're done with your phone,

and you wanna give it to your cousin's plumber's beautician,

or whatever it is.

So you think to yourself, "Oh, I'll just go ahead

and get all my stuff off this phone

by hitting a factory reset."

That on an Android is a disaster,

and it is something you don't want to do.

You can most certainly do a factory reset,

but you first must delete all of your accounts.

If you fail to delete all of your accounts,

you've just turned this phone into a brick,

and it is very difficult, if not impossible, to recover.

So if you wanna give the phone to somebody else,

first delete all of your accounts,

then feel free to do a factory reset.

This is actually a very smart function.

What they're trying to do here

is if somebody steals the phone,

they don't want them to be able to just do a factory reset

and then use the phone.

So it's a good idea.

You know what, I'm gonna throw in one more thing

'cause it's kind of cool.

And that is the concept of location.

So many applications lean on the concept of location

that it's a very, very powerful tool.

The problem is, is most people don't set

their location properly for their phone.

Let me show you what I'm talking about.

All right, so here I am back in Settings.

And here you'll see it says Location, On, and High accuracy.

What I'm talking about right here is the mode.

So you'll see on this phone I've got three different modes.

High accuracy basically means use everything you can

to try to figure out where you are.

Battery saving means turn off GPS,

and device only means only use GPS.

When it comes to location settings,

it's really a matter of battery life more

than anything else.

Somebody like me who's a constant road warrior,

constantly using GPS tools, using location services,

also, I'm gonna show you in other episodes

how you can recover your device

if you have location services turned on,

I'm always gonna be using a very high accuracy mode.

But I'm paying for that in battery life.

One of the most important things you can look at on a phone

is that if you're burning a lot of juice

and you're battery's only lasting a few hours,

you might wanna consider turning off the GPS.