Mike: Hi everybody. It's your buddy Mike

and I am playing in the world of virtual reality.

Come check out where I am right now.

Ahh, Who doesn't love Manhattan?

Somewhere over here.

Let's get some altitude.

There it is.

What's Mike going for?

Yep. Statue of Liberty.

Coming in for a landing.

Woo. I'm actually kind of wigging out right now.

You've never flown at a thousand miles an hour

Superman style across Manhattan, have you?

Well, today you can.

With virtual reality

we create our own complete virtualized realities.

Ergo the name, and can do some amazing stuff.

VR has some real world implications

for military, medical and engineering,

but the reality is for somebody like me

I just love the gaming that we can enjoy.

I've been watching VR come of age for the last 25 years

and it's only in the last few years

that we really get to see things work.

So what I wanna do is take a quick tour.

I'm using the HTC Vive Pro VR system.

Let me show you some of the hardware.

So, first of all, we start off with these controllers.

Now these controllers have a number of sensors on 'em

and I've got this big headset.

This headset is really two monitors running OLED.

They're separate monitors and your own human

binocular vision makes it all 3D.

We've got sound and perfect, perfect tracking.

So if you take a look here,

these are basically just infrared transmitters.

So for the exam the only thing I really think

we need to be comfortable with is the concept

of virtual reality versus augmented reality.

Now, with augmented reality, we see the real world

but the only difference is, is we place things upon that.

So, for example, if you ever messed

with Instagram or Google Translate

you'll see applications that look something like these

and you can see how we can use an augmented reality

system to take advantage of some really,

really interesting features

like getting something translated on the fly.

So I'm gonna go ahead and play a little bit more.

You go ahead and get yourself a chance when you can

and try out VR for yourself.
