-: So now you've got yourself a smartphone.

Well, what do you do to actually maintain this device?

Well, the answer is actually

if you have an Apple device, not much.

Apples are pretty good at maintaining themselves.

If you have an Android,

there's a few things you need to take care of.

But whether you have an Apple or an Android,

there is one thing that's always going to be the same.

And that is there's only two kinds of cell phones out there.

There are CDMA phones, Code division multiple access

and then there are what I call GSM phones.

It's really easy to tell the difference.

GSM phones come with a little SIM card

and if you get a GSM phone,

usually going to get a little SIM card

and they have to put that in

and then you can actually use the phone.

With the CDMAs, they didn't come with a SIM card.

Now if you're watching me in Europe, or in Africa,

or in Asia, you're looking at me going,

"Mike, what is CDMA? What are you speaking?"

That's because if you're, other than the North America

and some of South America

you'll never ever, ever see CDMA phones.

However, stuff about CDMA is mentioned on the exam,

so I'm gonna cover that in here as well.

The big challenge you have

with CDMA phones is that there's lots of stuff

that needs to be updated

and the big magic word here is firmware.

Now there's no hard drive in here

so there's no place to store our operating system

and our drivers and all that stuff.

So we store it on ROM

and that's firmware and sometimes it has to be updated.

There's all kinds of updates that take place.

You've got what we call Baseband updates,

which is going to be some of your cellular stuff.

We've got broadband updates, we've got radio updates

for wifi and all these things, and the exam seems to

trait these separately when they really don't.

In the real world, this is handled for you pretty much

magically with a few exceptions

that we're not gonna worry about.

One issue that you do see with CDMA phones

is something called the PRL.

The PRL is your Preferred Roaming List.

And if you have an old CDMA phone,

if you're suddenly noticing

that your texting is running slow

or your phone calls are taking forever to connect

you might wanna consider updating your PRL.

Now, how that's done depends on your carrier

but it's usually consists of getting on the phone

and dialing something like *228 or something like that,

and the updates will be taken care of for you automagically.

PRL is a part of what we call

the Product Release Information or PRI.

This is a big chunk of updates that hit all at once

on CDMA phones and the only time

you have to worry about this

is if you're having trouble connecting,

if things are going slow,

or if you're in like a new place

you haven't been before

and suddenly you can't make any form of connection,

usually just updating your PRL

will take care of that for you.

But when it comes to all of this updating

that comes in, you really...

If you're in the world of GSM phones, that doesn't happen

because pretty much all phones are designed

to have updates sent to you.

Now, the one choice you can make is whether you want

to have it automatically update or not

and you're gonna have to go in,

Android and iOS are different on this,

but they still will have something that says,

"Do you wanna update automatically

or do you want to have an update come in?"

And then you manually go through the updating process.

(coughs) On desktop operating systems,

I'm a little bit nervous about updates

but when it comes to my phones, I update like crazy.

I don't even think about it.

And I'm not saying I've never had problems

but it's been an extremely rare issue.

So update like crazy.

So if you're talking about OS updates,

if you're talking about patching,

if you're talking about firmware,

when it comes to smart devices,

it's all the same thing.

It's just an update and go for it.

Now, there's a couple of other numbers

that you run into on phones

and I wanna make mention of them.

One of them is called the IMSI,

the International Mobile Subscriber Identity

and the other one is IMEI,

International Mobile Equipment Identity.

I wanna show you both of these settings on a phone.

Now, the first one I wanna show you is IMSI.

So, I actually ran a program here called SIM Data Reader.

So IMSI is actually built into the SIM itself.

You see this number here that starts with a three.

The rest of it's fuzzed out.

So, the reason I'm fuzzing it folks

is because this is my personal phone

and my IMSI defines not only me as a subscriber

but what rate plans I'm paying for.

It gives a lot of personal information,

so sorry, I like you, but not that much.

So you're never going to see IMSI

on a CDMA phone 'cause you don't have a SIM,

you don't have that little card in there that defines that.

Okay, now the next thing I wanna

take a look at here is IMEI.

IMEI defines the phone itself

and it's really an important number.

You should know it.

There's a lot of ways to get to the IMEI.

I'm gonna show you the best way.

So all I did was type in *#06#

and that universally gets you to your IMEI information.

You'll see that right there at the top.

IMEI identifies the phone

and whenever you're getting a new phone,

you have to go through this activation process

and they already have your IMSI

because you went to some carrier

and they know what that number is.

They need to connect the IMEI to the IMSI.

So when you activate a phone

that's really all you're doing to get it up and cooking.

And then that way as you're going around

people can charge you.

You pay your bill every month.

Okay, so that's one feature that you might run into.

Now, the other one, interestingly enough,

I'm throwing this in here 'cause CompTIA did,

and that's the idea of VPNs.

Now we have an entire episode that talks about VPNs

but VPNs work perfectly well on phones just as well.

So if you wanna set up a VPN,

you're gonna have to go into your settings.

And here on this Android,

it's under advanced and you'll see here's a VPN.

Now as I click on this, I'm gonna hit a plus sign.

Mikes VPN, and I can set the VPN type I want.

You can see that Android has a fairly limited number

of different types of VPN, but here's the important one.

Make sure you know the IP address of your server.

And I'm making these numbers up, so don't try to use them.

But without knowing your server's IP address

you're never gonna get VPN to work.

Also, keep in mind that pretty much

all of the better quality VPNs,

they're not going to use the built-in VPN client

that comes with your phone.

They're gonna go ahead and install their own VPN client

that has a lot more flexibility for it.

But the important thing is even those clients

are still gonna have, give it some kind of name,

set up what type of VPN it is,

and make sure you have the server's IP address.

Remember those three, you'll get through the A plus.

No problem at all.

Okay, the next thing I wanna talk about

is the idea of remote backups.

Now, we did kind of touch that in other episodes

but let me at least make quick mention of it.

Both Android and iOS are amazingly good at doing backups.

They're either gonna back it up to Google Drive

if it's Android or iCloud if it's iOS.

the only thing I need to remind you is this one thing,

turn it on. (snickers)

If you turn it on, it's gonna work beautifully

and the level of automagicness is absolutely impressive.

All right, so now I'm gonna split things up a little bit

between iOS and Android

and the term I'm gonna use is antivirus.

You can have antivirus or anti-malware installed

on both iOS and on Android devices.

However, the general consensus is,

is because of Apple's tight control on their stores,

it's not really necessary.

And to be honest with you, I'm unaware

of any Apple person who has installed an anti-malware

on their phone.

And if you go on the store

you can see there's plenty to install

and I'm not sure exactly why.

I think it's mainly for developers

and people who like to play dangerously.

Now that's different on the Android devices.

Android devices change things a lot.

In particular, the idea of the store

is going to be a trusted source of software.

So whether you're on iOS going into that store

or you're on Android going into the other store,

you have a high degree of confidence

that you can go on install these

without fear of malware and that type of thing.

However, with Android devices,

you don't have to use the store if you don't want to.

Let me give you an example.

So here's some program that I want to install.

Now notice I'm just on a website right here, okay?

So if I hit download,

notice that I'm gonna get this big warning.

What it's trying to install are these files.

If you look very closely, you see dot APK.

That's just a Android installation file.

I'm not in the store here, folks.

I'm just grabbing some arbitrary website.

And because Android is all about freedom,

you don't necessarily have to install

from untrusted sources.

However, by the way, most Android devices

could be configured in such a way

where you would prevent them from doing this.

Mine's wide open because I like showing you guys cool stuff.

So make sure you're aware of the idea that inside the store

versus out the outside the store.

Inside is trusted, outside is untrusted.

So if you're gonna be dealing with untrustworthy things

that brings up the last issue and that are firewalls.

Host-based firewalls are as important

on a smart device as they are on a desktop system.

However, again, because of Apple's strong control

of their store, it's less of an issue on a Apple device

as it is on an Android device.

Android devices provide a broad cross section

of third party firewalls that can do an excellent job.

But even then, if you're the type of person

who sticks to the store on Android,

the chances of you needing anti-malware or a firewall,

it's pretty slim.