-: One of the most important aspects of having a mobile device is I want my data up to date, and accurate, and with me at all times. So to do that, we go through a process called synchronization. Now, synchronization is kind of a dated concept that is also extremely modern. In other words, synchronization predates the cloud, and that's an important thing to remember when we're talking about the A+ exam. In particular, the whole idea behind synchronization is that you've got a chunk of data somewhere and you want the same chunk of data someplace else. So let's say we have contacts. If I have some contacts here and I add a contact, I want some process that will go over to this other pile of contacts and on the fly update it so that these are the same pieces of information. That's what makes synchronization different than backup. In a backup scenario, what you're doing is you have a chunk of data here and you just make a copy of it over there. So it's not so much of a synchronization, because if another thing comes into play, you want him to be able to synchronize as well. So in a world today where we have phones, and desktops, and tablets, and laptops, and automobiles, and internet of things devices, the concept of everybody staying synchronized is really, really important. Now, for the exam, they look at synchronization in three different ways. Number one is synchronizing to the desktop. That one actually kind of makes me go way back, and back with the old Windows days where I would have a little device in my hand with names like I-pack or something like that and I would synchronize by dropping it into a cradle and via a USB connection, synchronize it to an individual computer. Those days are pretty much completely over. There's a few vestiges left, and about one of the most common vestiges is this right here. Here's good old iTunes. Still plodded along after almost 20 years, and it is a great way for you to synchronize all of your music onto your desktop or actually into the cloud as well, but to allow the desktop to a device type of synchronization. That's about the only thing left that I'm comfortable with. The second way the A+ wants us to know about synchronization, and this is a good one, is with our automobiles. The ability for a lot of automobiles now to synchronize via either Android or through iOS is extremely convenient. I can just take my phone and leave it in my pocket. Via Bluetooth, it'll synchronize with my automobile and I can automatically make phone calls via voice. I can use GPS functions. It's extremely convenient. That luckily is pretty much automated. As long as you've got a Bluetooth connection to your auto, it works. The third one, and in my opinion, the overwhelmingly dominant form of synchronization we do today is through the cloud. So either you're doing this through Google Drive or through iCloud. Pretty much all of your devices are going to be doing cloud synchronization. I've got my device up here. Let's take a look at some of the synchronizations we have on this Android device. Now, keep in mind. I'm doing this with Android. It's pretty much identical on an iPhone. The big thing here is I'm gonna be using accounts. If I take a look at any individual account. Let's look at a big one here. Let's look at my Gmail account. You'll see that it's currently set up to sync for 10 out of 11 items. So you'll see it's syncing my calendar, my contacts, documents, Gmail, music, all kinds of stuff is all being synchronized just by me flipping switches and setting up whatever I want. Even my fitness data. No jokes. So when it comes to synchronization of the most critical information, things like contacts, applications, email, even things like pictures and such, pretty much we're gonna be using the built-in features that come with our individual devices and just basically letting them do the magic that they do. Now, that's not the only thing we wanna back up in this world. I'll tell you another one that I live on heavily are the bookmarks that I use in my accounts. So in order to do that, we have to actually deal with individual browsers. So if I'm using Chrome or if I'm using Firefox, it doesn't matter. I will sign into these browsers, mainly because I like to have my fancy bookmarks, my backgrounds, everything set up. Let's take a look over here. I've got Firefox running right now and I like to use the start page with a nice dark background like this, and I wanna be able to have this no matter where I go. So it was easy enough to do. All I did was create an account on Firefox and then I could even set up what I wanna sync, my bookmarks, history, logins. So if I ever wanna save passwords and such, that makes it really convenient for me. And while it will normally sync by itself automatically, I can always hit that to force a synchronization. Another big thing I like to sync is location data. I use a lot of tools. For example, the popular GPS driving tool Waze. There's a lot of times where I want to let somebody else know where I'm at. All of these tools lean heavily on location information and they will automatically sync with each other and allow me to let you know where I'm at at the amusement park or something like that. The other one is eBooks. I'm a big Kindle reader. Let me fire up Kindle for you. All right, so here I am on Kindle. If you take a look on here, I want all of my books to be synced with all my purchases up on Kindle. You can see right here I've got a nice little handy option. Woo, it's been a while since I've synced. But all I have to do is hit that and I've synchronized. All the books that I've purchased are being brought down to my device so I can read my eBooks in comfort and peace. The last one is social media. This is kind of an interesting one. To me, if we're wanting to synchronize social media data, what we're talking about is either A, we count on the social media applications themselves to handle that. So if I'm running LinkedIn on my phone, I'm gonna count on when I do LinkedIn on a webpage that they're going to have synchronized information. That's actually handled within the application itself, actually within the service itself. But there's another way to look at it. There's companies and organizations with things like, for example, Hootsuite, which will actually go through a process of if you post in any of your social media, depending on the type and it'll filter for you and all that, it will propagate it to all of your other social media. I don't know about you, but I've been on Facebook lately and it amazes me. You see all this stuff. You know that's coming through synchronization. The last thing I wanna make a mention is that you're gonna have a lot of applications that come into play here, and you need to be careful with all of these different types of applications. Any application that's synchronizing either overtly, like for example, my web browser where I actually hit a sync, or things like Facebook where you just have to assume that syncing is going on. There's gonna be software requirements for you to install these applications. Just take some time to read it. They're always going to have well established, well-documented requirements. Get 'em installed and synchronize away.