-: Is there anything more terrifying

than to suddenly come home and discover

that you don't have your smartphone,

that you've left it in a cab,

or you dropped it on the street,

or you got held up and somebody took it from you?

The bottom line is,

is that if somebody gets the information on this device,

you're in a lot of trouble.

Our banking is on here, personal information,

all of our contacts, and friends, and phone numbers,

who knows what's on there?

And the last thing we want

is anybody to get to this information unauthorized.

So, hopefully, I'm really preaching to the choir

on a lot of this stuff,

but let's go over what we need to do

to keep our smart devices secure.

So, the first one, the big one, is gonna be a screen lock.

It blows my mind away how many people

still don't use a screen lock.

All they have to do is they go up to their phone,

they press a button, turn it on, and you're in.

And all I gotta do is go to your bank account,

or go over to eBay and buy stuff,

not a good idea.

So, screen locks are really, really important.

Now, screen lock functionalities are very similar

between Android and iPhones,

but I'm gonna do this one on an Android.

What I'm gonna do is, I'm gonna go into Settings,

and I'm going into Security & location on this version.

And, right now, you'll see the Screen lock says None.

So, what I'm gonna do is, I'm gonna look at my options.

So, I can do a Swipe, which is really no screen lock at all,

but it does require you to at least swipe it.

I can make a Pattern,

I can type in a PIN code,

or I can type in a Password.

So, let's go ahead and try Pattern.

So, I'm gonna have to give it some pattern.

So, you've got a lot of options

when it comes to setting up a screen lock.

Keep in mind that you can also do things,

for example, face recognition.

Now, we can't really do that in Android

without third-party apps,

but it is now built into iOS devices.

Here's an example of one.

Now, if you wanna take it another step further,

you can do multi-factor authentication,

which simply means doing more than one of these.

Now, it's not very common on a screen lock

to see multi-factor authentication,

it can happen,

but we usually do it with individual applications.

Like, for example, I might have a particular program

where not only do I have to log in with a passcode,

but then it's going to then call my cell phone

and text me back a number,

and then I have to punch that in.

So, it's requiring two authentication factors.

And anytime you're worried about security,

multi-factor authentication is the way to go.

All of my banking tools, all of my health tools,

all use multi-factor authentication,

no exception to that.

Now, while you're logging in,

sometimes you might forget things,

like passcodes, or patterns, or things like that.

So, you will have

a number of failed login attempt restrictions.

So, basically, like, let's use iPhones as an example.

After you try logging in a certain number of times,

it kinda puts you in timeout

and makes you wait a little bit longer

until you can try again.

There is a setting on iPhones, for example,

that will set the number of times you can attempt

before it erases the phone.

So, here's an example of that setting on an iPhone.

The other handy tool are authenticator apps.

A lot of times,

especially if I'm using a tool like, for example,

Google, or if I'm using Microsoft products,

I'm constantly logging into all these different apps.

So, what I'd like to have is some kind of authenticator app

which adds an extra layer of protection.

So, on this phone, I actually have one.

This is the Microsoft Authenticator app,

and what you're looking at here

is a code that I have to type in.

So, if I'm logging into a Microsoft product

where I've activated it to use this,

not only will I have to log in through a passcode,

or username and password, whatever it might be,

but then it's gonna tell me to punch in this code as well.

So, the only downside to authenticator apps

is that once you set up an application to use them,

if you lose your phone, you could often be in trouble.

So, for example, Google has an authenticator,

but it comes with backup codes,

so that if you ever run into trouble,

you actually have these codes.

So, when you get your new phone,

you can use one of these codes

and get around that type of stuff.

So, be careful with authenticator apps.

The other thing we run into with these phones

is that we lose them.

And we're nervous when we lose them,

and understandably so.

So, one of the things we'd like to be able to do

is, number one, find our phone.

So, both iOS and Android have wonderful tools.

It's called Find My iPhone in the iOS world,

and in Android it's called the Android device locator.

So, I've got Android device locator running right now.

So, all I had to do

was go to Android device locator, type it in,

and this popped up.

Now, if you take a look, it actually shows my phone.

Yep, that's where I am right now,

Fuqua Street in Houston, Texas, yee-haw!

All right.

So, I've got a couple of options here that are handy,

For example, PLAY SOUND.

So, if I hit this...

Phone Voicebot: It's for you, Mike.

It's for you, Mike.

-: Isn't that a great sound? -: It's for you, Mike.

-: Okay. -: It's for you, Mike.

-: Stop!

There we go.

So, that's one thing.

That can be often handy

when you drop your phone behind the bed

and you can't find it.

The other one is that you can lock the device out,

and just lock it out so that nobody can get to it,

none of your login stuff will work,

and you're gonna have to actually go back

and open the device through a different computer

on a Google account.

And the last one that's kind of handy is ERASE DEVICE.

So, on this one, I can just click on this,

and it will completely erase everything on this phone.

And, again, pretty much,

iPhones have the exact same options,

and it is a wonderful and handy tool.

The other type of security I wanna talk about

is something that's a little bit more aggressive,

and this is called...

Basically, it's under the umbrella

of what we call Mobile Device Management.

When you're in a corporate environment,

you really have some amazing tools

when it comes to what you can do on a phone.

For example,

if I have, what we call, Bring Your Own Device, BYOD,

it's kinda limited in terms of what you can do.

Because if I own the phone,

and if the company wants to put their stuff on it,

that can often be a question mark.

So, what you'll see instead is,

you'll see corporate-owned devices.

So, what'll happen is,

now, I've got my Total Seminars phone.

Now, if you have that,

you have enterprise level controls,

and you can do all kinds of amazing things.

You can set up security policies,

you can do all kinds of really lockdown type of stuff,

big passwords, anything you want.

In fact, one of the big ones,

and I wanna make mention of this because it happens a lot,

is somebody hands you a phone from the corporation,

you're like, "Eh, I got a phone here,

so, you know, I'm gonna play some fun game

with Pokemons or something."

So, you wanna install Pokemon GO,

and you go into the store,

and you know what?

That's not an option.

And that's because in corporate-owned devices,

they can actually whitelist only certain applications

that can show up in the store.

It's a very, very powerful tool.

If you wanna learn more about that,

take my Security+ course,

we got an amazing deal on MDM.