-: Hello, folks.

It's the Great Mike Strami once again

dealing with issues that will show up

on the A+ exam in terms of troubleshooting.

Now, what's actually very interesting is

that CompTIA decided to come up

with a whole bunch of mobile device security symptoms

and how we're gonna deal with them.

So, in this particular episode

the Mike Strami will only be dealing

with security issues that you're gonna see

on your mobile devices.

However, I'm gonna tell you something as we go through these

I personally feel that a lot of these symptoms can show

up in non-security related problems.

So you're probably gonna see some

of these again except we're gonna be talking

about 'em from a non-security in another episode.

So you guys ready?

Bring on the problems.

What do we got first here?

Okay, signal drop or a weak signal.

Yes, that can most certainly manifest

as a problem in terms of security.

That's a very scary one, in that somebody might

actually be turning down your connectivity.

This is a classic example

of what people wanna do when they're going to

be attacking your device because they don't

want you connecting or updating or anything being checked.

So this is the first thing that they're going to do.

This will be an incredibly obvious thing though.

It's not gonna be like, you know, you're gonna be

in the middle of Antarctica and suddenly your signal drops.

You're gonna be in the middle of a big city

where you should be having five bars

and instead suddenly everything drops

off completely in that type of situation when

you know you should be having good cell connectivity,

good Wi-Fi connectivity, good Bluetooth connectivity

and suddenly it disappears.

That's a concern.

My answer is I'm gonna be turning that phone

off, like completely off,

and then I'm going to be checking it out later.

Another big one is they're gonna be using a lot

of things on your device.

So you're gonna do things like power drain, slow data speed

high resource utilization, data transmission over the limit.

'Cause they're grabbing a lot of data.

All of these collectively point

to somebody who has put something on your system.

Now, it's almost certainly gonna be

an Android device if this happens. Go Apple.

And the only real answer there,

is to run some form of anti-malware

because somebody's got something naughty on your system.

However, I will also put in the caveat that a lot

of times anti-malware for Android devices

while good, is an imperfect thing, and a lot of times

if I see stuff like this, I'm gonna start checking accounts.

I wanna see if there's something weird happening anywhere

in hopes that I might find something bad enough.

The end result is I'm changing all my passwords all

over the place, I mean everywhere.

And then I'm gonna be going in,

and I'm gonna do a factory reset on that device,

and reinstall from scratch because I'm paranoid, that's why.

A couple other ones you're gonna see

that will happen from time to time

is like an unintended Wi-Fi connection

or an unintended Bluetooth connection.

These are very tricky because you'll say

did I make that connection?

'cause I don't remember whether I did or not.

What I like to do to avoid this, is in particular,

a lot of these big widespread Wi-Fi connections

like AT&T Wi-Fi and things like that,

I avoid them like the plague.

Primarily because it's too easy

for me to suddenly be on an AT&T

connection when I wanted to be in the coffee shop.

And a lot of times bad guys will use these

broad connections to get you connected to

do whatever nefarious things that they want to do.

So you definitely wanna watch out for these problems.

And in general, what you're gonna be doing is

you're going to be wiping that device completely

and you're going to be installing from scratch

after aggressively changing every single password you have.

And I hope you're not one of those people

who uses the same password for everything,

'cause it will absolutely murder you.

Let me give you a little clue.

Every time you go to an application or to a website

there's gonna be some aspect of what you're connecting to.

Uh, I don't know, dropbox.com ends with an x

wink wink nudge nudge where you use

a base password and then you put something in there.

Also, make sure you're using very complicated passwords.

So unless you actually knew the phone number where

I was growing up in St. Louis, Missouri

on Portis Avenue combined with the search radar used

in the F-14D Tomcat fighter plane,

put those together you're not gonna have

much luck trying to figure out my passwords.

The other symptoms that they show to me aren't symptoms.

They're bad.

It's, it's not a symptom

it's the fact you've been attacked.

Things like leaked personal data in files

and you get personal information suddenly showing up.

You're getting these emails with Bitcoin accounts going

I've hacked your system.

They'll actually put a password in there.

They got you, man.

So this is bad. Unauthorized account access is-

suddenly your Facebook is showing

up with things that you never put there.

Unauthorized location tracking, where suddenly

people are going, 'Hey Mike, I saw you at blah, blah, blah.'

Whereas location tracking should be incredibly private.

Unauthorized camera, microphone activation.

Suddenly people have recordings of you talking

at the coffee shop with your favorite barista, like

where did this come from?

Folks, those aren't symptoms.

Those are the results of a hack.

In those situations, you go absolutely bananas.

Number one, you wipe that device completely.

Number two, you go online, do whatever you need to do.

You get to every single one of these accounts

and you change the passwords.

And number three, you take solace in whatever entity

or spirit or philosophy that you choose

and hope that that person hasn't caught one place

with one password where you were doing something

you probably shouldn't have been doing in the first place.