-: One of the great things about being an old tech are terms like paperless office. I remember, I'm serious kids, in the mid 1980s, where people were talking about how paper is going away and it's just a matter of time. Well, haa! I can't tell you how much money I've made fixing printers in those 30 some odd years. So in this episode, I wanna talk about, probably my most favorite of all printer types, a laser printer. Now, a laser printer's actually a pretty interesting device. They've been around for a while now but the cornerstone of what makes a laser printer work is this guy right here. This is a toner cartridge. Now that's interesting enough, but in particular do you see this green colored roller here? This is what we call a photo-sensitive drum and this is the cornerstone of all laser printers. You see the idea behind laser printing is that you can use a laser to hit that little photo-sensitive drum. Now, that photo-sensitive drum can hold an electrical charge, a static charge, but the more light it sees, the less of a charge at that particular spot it can hold. Using that technology, we can do some amazing stuff. So let's talk about the laser imaging process. So this is my photo-sensitive drum. That green thing you just saw. Everything that has, well virtually everything that has to do with laser printing, happens on this drum. So what we start off with is what we call processing. So print jobs come in from different computers and they're stored in memory on the laser printer. For the most part, with laser printers, the entire job comes into the printer and then it's actually printed. So the printing process begins, first of all by charging one spot on this guy with a primary corona. The primary corona puts a uniform negative charge on this. Now keep in mind, there's different parts doing different things as we go. So right here, here's the primary corona, and it depends on the brand, but anywhere from like a -400 volt to a -600 volt charge. So before we go any further, let me put out a quick warning here. Sticking your hand into an operating laser printer is a really bad idea. We're talking about extremely high voltages or extremely low negative voltages. Same thing as far as being electrocuted comes. We also have to deal with extremely high heat and rollers and things that are pinchy and painful. So before we even say anything else, never stick your hand into a functioning laser printer. Okay? Let's get picked to the process. So now that we've got this negative, say I'm gonna for this example is a -400 volt charge. As it rotates, the first thing that's gonna happen is we're going to have a laser begin to write whatever the image is onto the photo-sensitive drum. You can't see it, it's just a difference in charge. So wherever it's hitting it with the little tiny bits of laser light, it's gonna go from say, -400 to about a -150 volt charge. Again, if you could see electricity, you could actually see the letters being written at that point. So now, the next thing we're gonna do is go into developing. At this point what's happening is your toner is sitting at around a -300 volt charge. Now I want you to think about this for a minute. If this is -300 volts and the unexposed part is -400 volts that would be very negative. And negatives avoid other negatives, it would be repulsed from the area that wasn't exposed. Where it is exposed, it's a -150 volts. So even though the toner is -300, at -150 that's a positive, it's less charge. So the toner is gonna be yanked out of the toner pile and it will stick wherever we had the exposed image. So now we literally have loose toner sitting on the photo-sensitive drum and at this point if you could get your eyeballs in there, you could actually see your words. So now as it continues to turn, the first thing we're gonna have is our paper coming in. Now as the paper comes in, first of all, we're gonna have pickup rollers, and then we're going to have separation pads or separate pads. Basically the pickup roller grabs the paper and the separate pads pushes on it so that only one piece of paper is grabbed at a time. So now as it comes in, the first thing that's gonna happen is we're gonna have this transfer corona. This transfer corona is gonna put a static charge of like +150 volts onto the actual paper itself. You wanna talk about statically charged paper. When the transfer corona gets done with your paper, it is staticky. Now the cool part is as it continues to rotate, the paper comes right next to the photostatic drum and now all of a sudden your toner which is barely holding onto that photo sensitive drum sees a piece of paper with a +150 charge and it goes wham, and it hits the paper really, really hard. And now it's almost all of the toner. There's a few little bits always, is still on the photo-sensitive drum, but now the actual image is on the paper, but we're not done. See, the problem right now is that even though the toner is stuck to the paper at this point, it's not on there very good. If I wanted to, I could smack the side of the laser printer and it would actually smear stuff. What we've gotta do now is seal that toner onto the paper. The nice part is, is toners designed to do this with heat and pressure. We can seal the toner to the paper. And that's the job of this fuser assembly. So the fuser assembly uses heat and pressure to actually melt and fuse the toner to the piece of paper. Then we usually have some type of anti-static device that wipes the static charge off the paper and then out it comes. So the seven steps you need for the exam are, number one, processing, where the print job actually comes in and is stored on local memory. On the actual printer itself. There are some situations where it doesn't happen but usually it does. Number two is charging and that's where the primary corona puts a really strong negative charge on it. Then number three is exposing and that's where the laser comes in and begins to write onto that photo sensitive drum and it actually reduces the charge wherever the laser light hits it. Next is developing. Developing is where the toner comes out of the toner hopper and hits onto the photo-sensitive drum and this is the first time you could actually see if you could get your eyeball in there. You could actually see your text or pictures or whatever you're doing. Then we go through transfer. So remember we have a transfer corona which charges the paper with a very strong positive charge. Then, as the paper clip gets really, really close to the drum, it just goes, bam! And it goes straight to the paper. Then we have fusing. We're fusing a assembly using heat and pressure, presses the toner into it. And then the last step, which I didn't cover, is cleaning. So basically after it goes through all this there's always a little bit of toner here and there. So there's always some kind of big rubber scraper thing that will scrape off any residual toner and by then we start the process over and over again. Keep in mind that all of these steps are taking place at the same time. It's a continuous process until your print job is done. Alright, now what I wanna make sure we understand is that this is for black and white printing on laser printers. Today we're seeing lots and lots of color laser printers. Color laser printers use the exact same process but they add a little bit more simply because instead of just having black toner in them, they have CMYK. So cyan, magenta, yellow and K is for black. So these different colors of toners, you have four toner cartridges in there. Well, they need a little extra help to get all the different colors onto one piece of paper. Let me show you how that works. So the only big difference with a color laser printer is we've got these four different hoppers of colored toner. So what takes place is that we don't just have a transfer roller but we usually have a transfer belt. So what takes place is each one of these passes close to the transfer belt, putting their particular color onto the belt. Now the belt has all four colors and then we go through the transfer process to go ahead and put it on the paper. Because of the built-in nature of laser printers, they're probably one of the easiest in terms of maintenance. However, I should also add that laser printers, especially big office laser printers are expensive and deserve a little bit of good treatment. So a couple of things we need to think about. Now everybody talks about the toner cartridge, but if you think about the toner cartridge, pretty much all the work is done inside this toner cartridge. It's got the photo sensitive drum, it's got the toner in it and this is where all the work takes place. And that's a nice part because as this photo-sensitive drum begins to wear out, we just replace it with a new toner cartridge. So you're not just getting new toner, folks. You're getting the new photo sensitive drum. You're also probably getting some pickup rollers a few other things like that, that are all in one very convenient little piece like this. But that's not the only thing you need to deal with. The other thing that laser printers are gonna need is ongoing maintenance. Now, ongoing maintenance number one is gonna be cleaning. Read the documentation for your particular laser printer. And they all have some fairly specific cleaning processes. Now, I know in other episodes I say, never use a vacuum cleaner. This is the one place where I will make an exception. A lot of times in order to get into specific spots on a laser printer, you must have an anti-static vacuum. Again, go ahead and read your documentation and see what you need for your particular system. The other thing that comes into play with laser printers is the concept of maintenance kits. All laser printers have maintenance kits. These maintenance kits are almost always gonna consist of, for example, a bunch of new pickup rollers. Pickup rollers are notorious for catching paper dander and over time they just stop picking up. You get a maintenance kit on there and all of a sudden you replace those guys and you replace some separate pads and next thing you know, all of a sudden it's working great, picking up paper perfectly. Also, you might see another maintenance kit that might have a transfer roller or something like that in it. Everybody's different. When you apply them is different. How often you do them is different but every single laser printer out there especially the more expensive office brands, have very specific maintenance kits that are usually applied after a certain number of prints. Now you can go into any laser printer you want and go into a maintenance mode where you can actually tell the laser printer to print out all its vital statistics. How many printing jobs has it done? How old is the actual printer itself? Lots of information like this and it actually will help you on some printers. We'll even post up a screen that says, "Please apply maintenance kit 1493." Or something like that. These maintenance kits are easily available. You can pick them up from the manufacturers although personally I like eBay, they tend to be a bit cheaper and it will do miracles for you. I have an original Hewlett Packard Laser Jet 3. Laser Jet 3 from the mid 1990s. The thing is a tank and the reason it runs so well is because I've given it good maintenance over the years and the thing still does a great job even today and Hewlett Packard still sells maintenance kits for 'em. The last thing you need to consider and that is pretty much unique to color laser printers is the concept of calibration. Over time, you can have issues primarily with your transfer roller that it will have issues that the different colors of toner are not hitting perfectly. They all have a built-in calibration feature. You run the calibration, you run a few pieces of paper through it and it fixes itself. These few basic rules, if you remember how to do this, and you too will have really old printers that work so fabulously well, you'll just keep 'em forever.