-: This, my friends,

is the printer that brought color printing to the masses.

This is an inkjet printer.

Now, for a long time,

inkjet printers were the way that we made color printing,

and we still see lots of color printers out there

that use inkjet technology,

although today lasers are doing a pretty good job of it.

Now, when we talk about inkjets, a few terms come out a lot.

Inkjets tend to be more inexpensive,

although I would argue that, than laser printers.

Inkjets tend to cost less

to actually run than laser printers,

which I would also challenge that as well.

However, the big thing I wanna do in this episode

is make sure you understand how inkjets work.

So let's take a look at inkjet technology.

The whole idea behind inkjet

is that you have these ink cartridges,

and connected to these cartridges,

although they don't have to be connected,

sometimes the cartridge can be a little bit away

and there's a hose, is this little guy right here.

This is where the jet comes from.

What happens is that ink is brought into this

and then we put some fire underneath it, we heat it up,

and it actually boils and shoots the ink

out of the little jet itself.

So not only does the ink shoot out,

but it comes out with a charge on it.

So we can actually put these metal deflectors around it,

which will actually point the ink in different directions.

Now, the ink doesn't just stay in one spot.

What we actually have is what we call a print head.

So here's an example of the print head.

And if it's just black and white,

then we'll have just one little jet here.

Otherwise, we might have C, Y, M, K.

So we have Cyan, Magenta, Yellow, and Black.

Might see that a lot too.

In fact, a lot of times on these inkjets

you can even have more colors than just that.

But the bottom line is, is you've got this print head

and that print head actually stores all of the jets.

So what then takes place is this print head

moves back and forth on the carriage,

which allows it to shoot ink

across an entire sheet of paper.

This is being transferred.

We have rollers on either side

and a belt that actually moves the carriage back and forth.

In fact, when inkjet first came out,

they were known as bubble jet

because the little heater made a bubble

and, boom, shot the ink onto the paper.

Now, not only do we have all of those parts,

but the other thing we're gonna have is,

you know, it's a printer,

so it's gonna have some kind of feeding mechanism

to bring in paper

and as well as to bring the paper out when it's done.

The nice thing about inkjets,

especially compared to laser jets,

is that we don't see all the scary high voltages

and incredibly high heats that you would see with lasers.

So they tend to be a little bit safer

for people who don't do the right thing.

So let's go ahead and actually take a look inside this guy.

First of all, what I wanna do is I'm gonna force this guy

into a mode so we can actually see some things happen.

So I've put it into a maintenance mode.

We'll talk about that in a minute.

But what I'm more interested in showing you this.

What you can actually see there is the print head

on the carriage moving back and forth.

And so you can actually even see the belt that's pushing it

if you look closely enough.

Now, he doesn't like it when I open him like that

when he's in the middle of these jobs like this.

Well, tough. I wanna show you guys.

So that's actually moving back and forth,

which is really pretty cool.

The other thing we're gonna have

is we're gonna have ink cartridges.

And anybody who's ever messed with an inkjet

knows that we have ink cartridges.

These are actually kind of interesting.

And we can actually see them there.

So we have M, C, Y, and then Black, so M, C, Y, K,

and they can be taken out individually.

Which is actually nice on a lot of inkjets,

especially older ones.

All the colors was in a single cartridge.

So if you ran out of red,

you were grabbing a new cartridge.

All right, so these are the basic parts,

but the couple other things I wanna mention real quick,

because not only is this an inkjet printer,

this is actually what we call a multifunction device.

In particular, it's also a scanner.

So you see I've got scanner functions right here,

and it even does fax as well.

So these are popular in offices.

So I've got a printer, I've got a scanner,

and I've got a fax machine all built into one.

Even have phone jacks to plug in

if you still need to do old school faxing.

Now when it comes to maintaining these guys,

there's a couple of things we have to deal with.

The big thing is,

is that there's always some type of maintenance mode to do.

In particular, what you're going to wanna do

is that carriage, when it's not being used,

and it sits in what's known as a maintenance area.

In fact, I think we could probably see it on this guy.

In fact, it's way over here.

We see how he's kind of pushed off to one corner.

The maintenance area really only has one important job,

and that is to plug those inkjets.

Inkjets are notorious for clogging.

It's a big problem.

So whenever an inkjet's not working for a living,

it goes into a maintenance area and little stoppers come up

so that it won't drip ink and clog.

It's a big deal.

All inkjets do this, no exception to that.

However, you can run into problems.

So one of the big things is that all of these inkjets

have some kind of maintenance tools.

In particular, one of the things they'll do,

number one, is they'll try to clean the nozzles.

So if you're ever having problem

with a particular color not coming out

or you're getting clipped imagery,

all you do is you run through a clean the nozzles

or clean the jets, it depends on the brand,

and it will go in

and force all of these guys to squirt ink.

It actually will heat the individual jets

a little bit extra, and most of the time it'll clean out

any extra ink you have laying around,

and it does a pretty good job.

The other thing you have to worry about,

and this is unique to the color ones,

is you have to do some form of calibration.

Because you have literally

four different jets shooting over time

because they're just kinda snapped in there,

they can lose their calibration.

And all of these printers have some kind of recalibrate mode

where you can actually just force it

and it will automatically double check everything

and recalibrate the jets for you.

I'm gonna tell you right now, from a maintenance standpoint,

I'm not a big fan of inkjets.

Inkjets take a lot of love

in order for them to work the way you need them to work.

They also tend to use a lot of ink

over a relatively short time,

so you're constantly replacing cartridges.

Now, luckily for us, pretty much all inkjets today

will have some kind of little program

running on your computer.

It'll let you know your inkjet,

your different ink levels, and things like that,

so you can replace cartridges.

But be braced for some real sticker shock when you go in

and find yourself having to replace just the cyan,

because, well, you're running out of cyan,

and it can get a little bit expensive.

The other challenge we run into with inkjets,

in fact this could be with almost any printing technology,

inkjets tend to be pretty bad,

I'm also gonna throw laser jets in here too, is paper jams.

We have pickup rollers on these guys.

They can pick up paper dander,

they have trouble picking up paper.

Or even worse, they'll partially pick it up

or they'll pick up two or three sheets and you get a jam.

Luckily, all these guys come

with lots of little doors and access points

for us to be able to clear those jams away.

All right, so that's the basics of an inkjet printer.

Now keep in mind, just because Mike Meyers, popular author,

is saying he's not a big fan of it,

don't think for a moment that the A+ isn't a fan.

You're gonna see plenty of questions on these guys.