-: What I have in front of me

is the granddaddy of all printers.

This is a dot matrix or impact printer.

These printers are so old, they predate PCs,

and were used back in the old mainframe days.

So what I wanna do is talk about

some of the parts that we're gonna see here.

So first of all, let me get some of this out of the way.

Let's see if we can take a look at this way inside here.

So this is the print head.

Now the print head actually has lots of little tiny pins

that push through this ink.

This is actually, let's see if I can get this out.

This is an ink ribbon.

So this actually has ink in it, like an old-time typewriter,

and the little pins push through this little tiny head

and it actually makes impact on paper.

Lemme see if I can get this guy back in.

So we've got a print head, we've got our ribbon.

It goes back and forth on this traverse mechanism.

Then we have the platen.

Let's see if I can get a better poke at that.

There we go.

So this right here is called the platen.

It's what we press against.

So when the little pins push through the ink ribbon

and onto the paper, this is what pushes up against it.

These platens can get out of a line

and they can be a real problem.

So basically those are the main pieces

of what makes these guys work.

The main thing is that these ribbons wear out

and if you've got a dot matrix printer around,

you're gonna have extra ribbon cartridges around,

just because the moment it starts to go out,

it becomes pretty obvious.

The other issue that comes into play,

although not as common,

is that the actual print head itself goes out.

These printhead are removable

and even on really old dot matrix printers,

you can still find replacement print heads for them.

You just take the whole thing out and put a new one in.

And then the other problem we have is paper.

Now we usually think about paper,

like good old 8.5x11 paper like this.

But back in the dot matrix days,

we had paper like this.

Let's take a close look at this.

So what we're looking at here is tractor feed paper.

The idea behind tractor feed paper was that,

this is how all these old printers used to work.

You could never put stuff like this

in these guys originally,

although they've come up with the times

and they work just fine.

So the idea behind tractor feed

is we've got some tractor feeds in there

and we would leave it there.

Most of the time with these dot matrix printers,

and if you take a look,

this is some multi-part form right here.

And that's the real benefit to dot matrix

because of the impact aspect.

This has one, I'm gonna count 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 copies,

that it can punch through.

And I don't even know what this is for.

Not sure if I even want to tell you what it is

but that's really the big benefit of dot matrix

is multi-part forms.

You think that dot matrixes are not that common anymore.

And you're right,

you tend not to see 'em in homes or in offices.

But in industrial environments and situations like shipping,

the ability to use multi-part forms

makes them extremely popular and fun to use.

So the other maintenance thing I wanna mention

on these guys is,

these platens in particular are a real challenge.

You've got to be so careful with them.

Over time, the platens will run out of adjustment

and there's always some kind of adjustment screw on here.

And these has got little tiny tabs

which allow you to try to bring that platen back in line.

It can be a real challenge and it takes a lot of time.

The downside is,

is that you might find maintenance kits for these,

but for most of these dot matrix printers,

they're such tanks that outside of the occasional cleaning,

you just let 'em run and they work forever.