-: If you wanna avoid the whole sharing issue,

why don't you go ahead

and set up your printer as a network device?

Now, there's two kinds of network devices.

There are wired devices

and that means you're gonna have to have a printer

with a network card in it.

And there's also wireless devices,

and in that case, you're gonna have to have a printer

with a wireless NIC in it.

The interesting part

is there's not a whole lot of difference

in terms of that type of configuration.

So first of all, let's talk about a wired connection.

Most printers today are incredibly aware of their network

and if I plug in an RJ45 into this device

and assuming I've got a good connection to the same network

that all my devices are on,

then it's not that big of a deal.

Most of the time, I've got some choices here.

Number one, most of these printers

will yell out on the network.

First of all, they're almost always DHCP clients

so they will grab a DHCP address pretty much instantly.

Also, they will broadcast their presence.

There are lots of protocols that do this.

So they have names like back in the older days

for the macOS it was the SLP protocol,

for Windows it's the LLDP protocol.

The bottom line is there are lots of protocols out there

that the moment you got this guy plugged in,

A, he will get his own IP address via DHCP,

and then he will start broadcasting to the world.

And you pretty much go into any operating system

and just install the printer and it goes/

However, this one's a little bit of a pain

so I'm gonna intentionally make it harder.

On this particular device,

when I plugged it in, it was not doing a very good job

of letting anybody know it was there.

So I got a couple of choices.

The first thing on a lot of these devices

is they're gonna have

some kinda little screen for me to make some configuration.

So on this one I actually had to go in

and configure TCP/IP setting.

Equally, if this is gonna be a wireless,

all I have to do is go into that front screen

and there's gonna be some place that says,

what's the SSID you want me to connect to?

I type in the SSID and I type in the passcode and boom,

this guy's on the wireless network.

The bottom line is it's usually not that big of a deal

to give this guy a legitimate IP address for your network.

Now the trick is getting

all your individual devices to see it.

Now on a lot of printers, it's already done.

All you have to do is start installing the printer

just like you'd install a local printer.

There's no real difference.

However, if there's trouble,

the first thing you need to turn to

is whatever utilities come with the printer.

This printer was giving me trouble,

so I had to go to the Brother website

and install a few utilities.

Let me show you what I did.

So I found this installation tool

and what I did is I said,

I wanna set it up for my network

and it's gotten around and it found it.

So I'm just gonna hit Next, Next,

and he's gonna go ahead

and configure individual systems

to be able to get to this particular printer.

There are a couple little tricks you need to keep aware of.

Number one with wireless in particular

is that this is a wireless network card in this printer.

So it's subject to the same old 802.11 rules we always have.

For example, if I've got an 802.11 AC network

that's on the five gigahertz band

and I got some old printer from 2005

that's an old 802.11g on the 2.4 gigahertz band,

I don't care whether you have wireless or not,

the moment you try to find that SSID,

you're not gonna see it

because you've got different band issues.

So when you're getting a printer,

think about what 802.11 standard you're using

and make sure you have a printer that fits into that.

Actually, here at Total Seminars,

we actually keep an old WAP around,

not because our individual systems need it,

but because we got a couple of old wireless printers

that can't talk 802.11ac.

So watch for questions like that.

The other thing you can do with these guys

is you can set them up wirelessly

for what I call direct printing.

So you've got some choices here.

Number one, you're normally gonna be running these

in standard good old infrastructure mode.

You gotta wireless access point.

However, you can set these up for ad hoc

or also known as wireless direct networks.

All you need to do is get an individual client,

maybe a laptop to go ahead and set up the ad hoc network,

and this guy can tie into that SSID,

just as though he was tying into a infrastructure SSID.

It doesn't make any difference whatsoever.

So once this guy's up and cooking

and you go ahead and you go through the process

of installing the driver and again on this particular one

'cause it was weird and fun

we had to install this particular Brother utility,

but once he found it,

the individual clients installed it

just like it was a local printer.

They found it, it went great.

Life is easy.

Now there is one more mention I want to get in here

when we talk about wireless networks and that's Bluetooth.

You don't see a lot of Bluetooth capable printers out there,

but they do exist.

If you're gonna be using Bluetooth, first of all,

make sure it's a Bluetooth capable printer

and you're gonna have to go through

the same pairing process,

if you were trying to put a headset on your smartphone,

you know you want to print from your smartphone

to this guy via Bluetooth,

you gotta go through the pairing process,

the whole shebang and good luck with that.

The other thing to remember on these printers

is that they have WPS.

So on a lot of these printers,

if you're having trouble with configuration

on the wireless side

and you have WPS capable router, yeah,

I know I'm not a big fan of WPS,

but simply pressing a button,

this one does not have WPS, interestingly,

pressing a button on your router,

then pressing a button on the printer

and it automatically configures and it gets an IP address

and it's onto your SSID,

no problem at all.

Okay.

When you get into the wireless world,

you run into the world of Zeroconf

or what Apple calls Bonjour.

What you're talking about here

is you've got an individual device

that wants to connect to it.

I wish this one had it

'cause I think that's part of the problem

it was hard to install

is that Bonjour, for example,

will go out on a wired network

and basically do all that broadcasting

and letting everybody know it's there.

It's amazingly great to run printers with Macs.

In fact, with the Mac,

you don't even have the idea of installing the printer

on the Mac locally.

It just magically appears.

Thank you, Bonjour.

Now, if you're on a wireless network,

you take advantage of something called AirPrint

on your macOS system.

And again, people laugh at me as a Windows guy,

especially the Mac folks.

They're like, we bring the printer into the network,

we make sure it gets an IP address,

we make sure it's connected on the right SSID,

and it just shows up on all the Mac clients.

Alright, Mac people, I'll give you that one.

It is amazingly incredibly convenient using Bonjour

and AirPrint to make printers appear.

In the Windows world,

while we do have Zeroconf functions,

you run into situations like I've got right here

where I have to go through the pain and suffering

of get it to actually configure.

While we're in here, I wanna show you this,

as I run the installation,

remember that this is a multifunction device,

it's also a scanner and a fax and all this.

So take a look what's showing up right here.

What we're seeing are some of the other features

being installed.

So this is a fax feature,

and that's nice.

It'll allow us to send faxes, things like that,

whatever we might want to do.

To take advantage of these multifunction things,

like for example, the fax,

a lot of times what we'll do

is we'll print a Word document

and we want to fax that document.

Well, we just go ahead and print to a fax.

The biggest thing out there is Google Cloud Printing.

The whole idea is that you print not to your local printer,

not to a network printer,

but to a printer that you install

to your actual Google account itself.

So the idea is that you set up,

it's actually built into Android

and you configure Google Cloud Print.

Now, you can't do this with just any printer.

First of all, it has to be a wireless capable printer.

No other way to get around that.

And it also has to have Google Print Services Support

built into it.

You can go to the Google Cloud Print

and take a look on their website

and they show you all the printers that can do it.

There's thousands of them.

So if that's the case,

there's really nothing else to do

other than be on the same wireless network as this printer.

You set up that printer, it is there forever.

And now anytime you need to print something,

it doesn't matter where you are,

as long as you're on the internet

and he's still on the wireless network at home

you can print to it no matter where you go.