-: Well, you really can't talk about printing anymore

without talking about 3D printing.

Now, 3D printing's been around for a while

but it's only with this version of the A plus

that we actually see 3D printing

being brought into the exam.

Now, I've played with 3D printing a little bit

but I wanna go ahead and just kinda

give you a rough overview of

how 3D printing works and talk about some of

the issues that come into play.

So first of all, you gotta start with a 3D printer.

Now, a 3D printer is basically a heating

element that can move back and forth.

There's a little table here that moves around

and what it's going to do is kind of almost lay out like a

imagine like a toothpaste tube of heated thermal

plastic that's a lot thinner than a toothpaste tube

but it's gonna squirt out and extrude a shape

based on 3D images.

Now you can draw almost any 3D image,

almost any 3D program.

I like to use the popular Blender myself

and I could take that image

and then I gotta bring it into a tool that's

gonna go ahead and then prepare it for printing.

And then we actually go through the printing process itself.

But let's talk about this printer I have in front of me.

So right here is my heating element, and at the very bottom

although you're not gonna be able to see it down

here at the very bottom is the extruder.

And then I've got this feed tube.

So what we're looking at, this is where,

this is the filament.

The filament is actually the unmelted raw material.

And this is what we use to make our 3D objects from.

So this filament, there's a lot of

different types of filament out there.

Plastics with names like PLA,

for example, things like that.

But they basically all have one thing in common

you can melt them and they also harden really

really quickly.

So there's even 3D printers that do metal,

and things like that.

But for us it's always gonna be some type of thermoplastic.

All right, so what I've done here

is I've got this guy ready,

one of the things I have to do to get him going

is I actually gotta preheat him.

So I've got the heater already preheated

in there and ready to go.

And what I wanna do is get an image.

So let's take a look over here on my screen.

And what I did is I've got this pretty little tesseract.

Let me scale this up for you.

Ooh, maybe not that much.

There we go.

So that gives you an idea

of just how we can scale this any way we want.

I can scale it manually if I want to.

For example, if I want this to be pretty small

I can knock it down to 20 millimeters

and notice that it drops itself onto the bed automatically.

And anyway, I take this shape

and what's gonna happen here is we're going to

then slice the shape to make the individual layers.

And that's what the extruder is actually going to be making,

so we take this 3D image.

Now if we take a look here, this program,

by the way is called Cura,

and I'm gonna go ahead and prepare it.

Now there's some interesting things in here.

For example, the layer height, we can actually

instead of just squeezing toothpaste around once

we could kind of do a double

or even a triple layer if you wanted to shape it like that.

This other option here is called infill.

If I had a solid object that was completely solid

I could say, how much of the inside

do you want me to fill in?

For structural strength, things like that.

We could have generate support.

Generate support is like

let's say I've got something a knight holding

a really long spear and he'll tilt

if I don't give it some support.

He'll generate based on its own physics

a little support on there.

And then build plate adhesion.

What that's talking about is you remember

like those little plastic army soldiers.

What they'll do is it'll make little plates

underneath it so it'll stick to

the moving table a little bit better.

So I'm gonna go ahead and say yes to that one.

Now watch here.

Oh, notice I've chosen the plastic PLA

'cause that's what I've got.

And I'm gonna hit prepare.

So it's gonna go through the slicing process

and make a slice file.

And that's what we actually feed into this.

Now this little printer has a USB connection

and I tried it with the USB

but something was going wrong and it made me uncomfortable.

But I can also just put an SSD in here

and that works just as well.

So I'm gonna save this to my SSD.

I'm now going to go ahead and pull this out.

I'm gonna bring it in here and start the printing process.

While I'm doing that,

let's take a look at this front screen.

Okay, now that I've got the card into the printer

on this one, I have to go to print

and it actually sees my little slice file right there.

It's called gcode.

And I'm gonna hit enter.

Now it's gonna have to warm up a little bit

but let's watch the bed right here

and we can watch the printing begin.

(upbeat music)

Ooh pretty. Take a look at this.

I've just printed myself a little tesseract.

Now the thing about these 3D printers

the biggest thing you need to remember is

that they use a lot of this filament.

So make sure you've always got plenty

of filament for a particular job.

Most of the time, these slicing programs

will give you a good idea as to how

much filament you're going to be using

on any individual given job.

And this little guy, for him, I actually

have to use a razor blade

and I'm gonna go ahead and cut this off.

But for the A plus, remember

that 3D printing is gonna be using some form

of thermoplastic filament that actually

uses an extrusion process by looking at 3D programs

which are then sent through a slicing process.

And it's actually the slice files that make all

of our pretty fun images.

So that's the basics.

But if you really wanna have some fun

these machines are getting cheaper and cheaper,

pick up a 3D printer.

You'd be amazed what you could make.