-: Hi, my name is Dudley Lehmer. I'm co-founder and CEO of Total Seminars. Our job is to help you pass the CompTIA exams the first time. And to do that we have some tips to share with you. Also, we wanna make it a little easier on your bank account so we're offering some discounts which we'll get to later on in this presentation. Students are always asking us for study tips. The CompTIA exams cover lots of topics, and whether you're new or even a seasoned pro, you don't want the added expense of having to take the exam more than once. As you know, they're expensive. So first, make yourself familiar with the topics and objectives. As you begin watching the videos, make sure you review and keep handy the objectives so you can check through them as you go and follow along and make sure you cover all the topics and objectives. The objectives are included in the resources with the first video in the course. Also, take notes. The action of taking notes helps you remember the material. People are always asking us, "Can you provide notes?" We don't for a reason, because the action of you taking them helps you remember the concepts and helps you commit the key points to memory. Next is practice. We know people have different learning styles. Most of us learn best with a mix of learning resources. Some people are visual or auditory and the videos will do a great job of helping with those people. Some learners learn better from reading, some people learn from doing, but one thing that's universal is practice. Everyone benefits from practice, practice, practice. Total Seminars has some materials to help you with each of these learning styles. For our visual or audio learners we have the videos which are designed to teach you the topics that are covered on the exam and all of the objectives. You already have the videos here on Udemy. All of the materials use the same building block knowledge approach designed to make you a great tech first, and in the process make sure you're ready to pass the CompTIA exam. For our readers, Total Seminars has eBooks available on our website for you to follow along with the videos. The A+ videos are based on Mike Meyer's bestselling All In One Exam Guide published by McGraw Hill. The video courses follow the book chapter by chapter. For our doers, Total Seminars has TotalSims, a product that gives you online learning exercises and labs that reinforce the concepts you're learning. There are four different kinds of TotalSims. Shows are a video walkthrough demonstrating a concept or how to perform a task. Clicks are simulations that give you the opportunity to perform the same task yourself. Challenges are exercises that give you practice matching concepts or performing a setup or a configuration. And Types are labs that you perform using the command line. TotalSims lets you practice what you're learning and also gives you practice for the performance-based questions you'll see on the exams. Finally, for practice, practice, practice, we have Total Tester, which is a practice test software with hundreds of practice questions in a pool. You can create custom exams covering individual chapters or groups of chapters or individual objectives or domains. The practice mode allows you to get hints, references to the chapter where the topic is covered, You can check your answers, see explanations, see why the right answer is right and the wrong answer is wrong. I suggest you watch two or three chapters of the video, read the books as needed for additional details, then do the TotalSims for those particular chapters that'll reinforce what you're learning. Then you can take custom practice exams covering only those chapters that you've been studying. Then move on to the next few chapters and repeat until you've covered the entire course. Be sure and go through the explanations and review all the questions you missed. When you're complete and you're done with all the chapters take a test in exam mode. This mimics the actual CompTIA exam, covers all the objectives weighted in the same way that CompTIA weights them on the exam. When you grade your exams, you'll see an overall score and you'll also see how you did by each exam objective. Select Review and go through the questions and the explanations to review all the questions that you've missed. If you have one or two objectives that are giving you trouble, you can create custom exams covering only those objectives. You can select History to see the tests you've taken and your score on each one. You can even drill down and see all the questions on those history exams. So when you can consistently score 85 or better on three or four exams in Exam mode, you can be confident that you're ready to pass the CompTIA exam. Now, the parts you've been waiting for. The money saving part. The first money saving offer we have for you is an offer at a reduced price for our TotalSims, Total Tester and ebook bundles. Use the discount code below at checkout. The best deals are our bundles, such as TotalSims and Total Tester, or eBook and Total Tester bundles. These are already discounted, but if you use a discount code below, you can save even more. Now for a second money saving offer. You can save an extra $15 on the cost of the exams with Total Voucher Discount CompTIA exam vouchers. Go to the URL below, purchase a voucher for any CompTIA exam. We sell US and Canada vouchers as well as international vouchers. When you purchase a voucher you'll get an email with a voucher code and instructions for signing up for the exam using the discount code. Use the discount code just like a credit card when you check out. You can use the voucher code to pay for the exam and you'll save the 10%, plus the $15 extra. CompTIA exams are delivered at testing centers, at View testing centers, or you can take your exam online. Most people do it online to be honest. I hope you find these resources helpful and good luck on your exam.