-: So we've learned a lot about what type

of features a CPU has, but by now,

you're probably wondering what

that whole alphabet soup of letters

and numbers alongside a CPU's name actually means.

And understanding the nomenclature

of CPU models will actually ensure

that you make a wise choice when the time comes

in either choosing your CPU or CPU for a client.

So in this video we're gonna learn

about the different generations

and their corresponding CPU architecture

so that we can make the best decision possible.

So let's go ahead and pull up a couple modern examples

of CPUs.

And we have the AMD Ryzen 9 5950X

as well as the Intel Core i9-12900K.

Does that make sense to you at all?

Probably not.

Probably because like me when I first started,

you don't understand all the different nomenclature

of the CPU.

So let's dig into that a little bit.

First thing you're gonna notice

on these two CPU names here, and again,

we're bringing back those same two CPUs

that we just displayed in the last image.

And now what we're gonna do is highlight,

as we go, every single component of this CPU name

so that you can understand what each one means

or what it directly relates to.

Now the first one's pretty obvious the brand, right?

In today's day and age, you've pretty much got two choices.

You've got Intel, and you've got AMD,

and those are right here at the start of our CPU name.

Now, as we move in, we move

in actually into what's called the tier of the CPU

and the tiers are actually a really good indicator

of performance.

So typically the higher tier you see, for instance,

an i9, is a more powerful CPU than say an i7

or an i5, right?

So the higher the tier, the better indicator of performance.

Next, if we take a look at this number, 12900K

in the Intel side and the 5900X on the AMD side,

we'll notice that first number is actually the generation.

And the generation gives us a really good indication

of a CPU's age.

And that's actually real really important

because even if an older CPU

and a newer CPU have the same clock speed and cores,

there's gonna be a lot of new technology that's included

in the newer generation of CPUs

than you're gonna get with the older generations of CPUs.

There might be things

like the CPU can handle more instructions per cycle, right?

Remember, we talked about those hertz in the clock cycle?

So it might be able to handle more instructions per cycle

or it might be able to better increase its proficiency,

all sorts of different reasons,

but those are included in the generation

of the CPU, and again,

that gives a very good indication to a CPU's age.

And next we have pretty much what everybody looks

at the model.

And the model actually gives us an exact idea

of the performance, but within a CPU's generation itself.

So for instance, if we take our AMD Ryzen 9 5900X here,

the fifth generation and the ninth model

of this CPU indicates to me that

because it is the higher number model,

it is generally one of the best performing ones

within this fifth gen AMD CPU.

And the final one we have to point out here are the suffixes

and they're the little letters you'll notice

off to the side.

Previously, like back in the old days,

they used to reference things like multi-threading, right?

When we used to be able to do parallel computing

on the same tasks, that all went away with multi-cores,

so we don't really differentiate those types

of CPUs anymore.

However, there are a couple other things

that we do differentiate with.

Specifically on the Intel side,

you'll notice the K.

K in this instance refers to the fact

that this CPU is completely unlocked.

That means it has no speed limiter.

You can go into the bios, you can increase the voltage

and you can go as fast

as this thing can possibly go, which we call overclocking.

There's also other acronyms or suffixes on there like F,

which on the Intel chips means

that there's no integrated graphics at all,

which is really useful if you're building a PC

because you know you can cut corners

and save a little bit of money if you're gonna be adding

on a dedicated graphics card later.

On the AMD side, the X here

in the suffix actually refers to the fact

that the base clock speed is tuned higher out of the box.

So essentially, this X, if you see that

on an AMD chip, just basically means

that it comes slightly overclocked straight outta the box

and there's not much you have to do to overclock that chip.

There's also another one you're gonna notice with AMD

and it's similar to the F, but it's the G,

and AMD has no GPU by default.

So G denotes on an AMD CPU with integrated graphics.

Now let's take a look at a site where we can examine some

of those CPU features

and intricacies from the modern age CPU.

And if we take a look over here at this site, we can see

that this site gives us not only the actual generation

of the processor, but shows us a lot of information too

like the L1 and L2 cache,

how many different cores they completely support

on both the desktop and the mobile side,

how fast they can actually go unclocked,

how much RAM they support, all sorts of stuff.

So if you're ever curious about, you know,

what generations preceded the CPU

that you currently have,

you can always go online

and take a look at one of these sites.

By the way, all of these sites

that I go over will be included in your resources

off to the side.

So don't be afraid to click in there and find it yourself.