-: So by now, you're probably wondering,

"Hey, why should I get CompTIA A+ certified?"

That's actually a very easy question to ask.

Besides the fact

that it's a highly recognized

industry standard certification

for both IT hardware and software,

it's pretty much valued in our industry.

Companies such as Blue Cross Blue Shield

and HP and Dell and Intel and Ricoh

value the A+ certification

and actively seek out and hire individuals

with that certification.

Also, it's actually become a recent requirement

for any information assurance technician jobs in the DoD.

It is a baseline certification for the 8570 directory

that enables people to get the IAT Level 1 qualification

to work in the DoD.

Very, very cool.

Also, you know, you make more money.

Certifications add to your value to the company

and add to the value to your paycheck.

Now I have to back up here a little bit

because it won't guarantee you a job,

but it well puts you well on the path

to finding that dream career.

So you might be wondering now,

what kind of job can I get with an A+ certification?

And there are tons of different names for these jobs

and some of them are intermingled

and used in the same manner,

but some of them may be,

help desk technician or a field service technician,

perhaps you've heard of desktop support specialist,

or support technicians and junior systems administrators.

Those are all different types of job titles and careers

that you can achieve with a CompTIA A+ exam.

Now you might be wondering the big question,

how much money can I make?

Well, an IT support specialist

just starting off with a CompTIA A+ certification

averages nationwide about $38,500 per year.

And if you become a field service technician

the average is about $45K.

And if you move up to a Level 2

or a Tier 2 help desk support,

that is actually right around $45K as well,

and all the way up on the high end

of desktop support analysts can make $60,000 or more.

Now let's take a look on CompTIA's site

at some of the positions available.

This is the IT support specialist career path,

and it gives you a very clear direction here

of what the pathway would be if you were following

this IT support specialist career.

You can start off with an exam like the CompTIA A+,

and this kind of shows you

how to get to the next intermediate level

and the advanced level

so you can walk through here and actually take

the entire series of CompTIA certs if you want.

It's very, very cool.

Now let's talk about stackable certifications.

This is kind of a new thing that's been out

I think probably over the last four or five years

for CompTIA if I remember right.

But CompTIA, if you achieve certain multiples

of their certifications, will give you a stacked cert

denoting that you're capable of more

than just what the individual certs themselves ascertained.

So for instance if you get the A+ and Network+,

CompTIA will bestow upon you the specialist certification

of CompTIA IT Operations Specialist.

Pretty cool.

Let's talk about the infrastructure

and cybersecurity pathways.

So we look here, we can see that CompTIA lists out a couple

of core skill certifications that we need to take

in order to actually diverge into one of those two paths,

whether it be an infrastructure

like a network engineer or a systems admin,

or whether it be the cybersecurity pathway

where you get into pen testing and blue team versus red team

and all that really neat cutting edge cybersecurity stuff.

And you'll notice here that the first one

is the IT fundamentals

but then we have our A+.

And the great thing that I wanna mention

about these certifications that CompTIA does is,

and I've taken pretty much

all the ones you see here on the screen,

they have a very natural overlap between them.

So by taking the A+,

there's a nice natural overlap

into the Network+ for instance,

it prepares you for a lot of those objectives on there.

Now you might be wondering how CompTIA A+ stacks up

against other similar certifications.

And actually on CompTIA's website, if you take a look at it,

they show you some common entry level certifications

that measure up with the A+ and what to expect from each.

So you can kind of get an idea of how many exams there are,

how long each exam is, and any of the skills you need.

Note here that it does says 9 to 12 months experience,

but I think that just hasn't been updated yet

'cause it is 12 months or more experience.

So all that's remaining is to figure out

how can we take the test.