-: RAM has a lot of features that I've kind of dumped all into one little episode that I'm gonna call, cleverly, RAM Features. So the first thing I wanna talk about is a unique feature of RAM known as parity versus ECC. So what I want you to do is take a look at these three sticks right here in front of me. Count the actual chips you see. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. One, two, three, four, eh, let's flip it over, this way you can see a little better. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. You see that? What you're looking at is, remember, when we talk about RAM, we always say bytes. I have 16 gigabytes. I have one gigabyte. I always say 32 gigabytes. We never say gigabits or anything like that, because when we measure RAM, it's always in bytes, and there are eight bits to a byte. Each one of those chips handles a bit and that's why you pretty much always see eight little chips on a stick of RAM. There's a few exceptions, but they're rare. So let's look down here one more time though. On this one, we have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine. Hey Mike, what's happening? Well, what we're looking at right here is what we call a parity, or arguably, an error correction code or ECC RAM. It's still good old DRAM. It could be DDR2, DDR3, DDR4. That doesn't change anything. But these very special types of RAM add an extra chip known as a parity chip. RAM very rarely dies. Usually, the only time RAM dies is when people grab it and electrocute it. If you leave RAM alone in systems, it tends to run for a long, long time. However, sometimes it's really, really important to make sure that whatever the RAM is doing is right, and this is where we start using parity or ECC RAM. Parity's a little bit older. We don't see it quite as much. Pretty much, today, if you're gonna be buying a motherboard that needs this type of parity, we just call it ECC or error correction code. If you wanna be technical, the difference is is that, with parity RAM, I can have one of the other eight, one chip of the other eight be bad. With ECC, I can have two of the other eight be bad. That's about the only real difference. ECC is great. It's extremely expensive, and you can only put it on motherboards that are designed to use it. You can't sit there and go, Hey, I'm gonna upgrade my motherboard and put some ECC. Nope. It's gotta, has to be designed from the ground up to be able to accept ECC or you're simply not gonna be able to do it. Also, keep in mind though, most of the motherboards that require ECC, well, they have to have it. We tend to see it more in servers than anything else. Now the other thing I wanna show you are what we call small outline, or short outline, depending on who you talk to, SO-DIMMs. What we have here are some examples of this. SO-DIMMs are designed in places where big long sticks don't really work the way we want them to. So laptops are probably the best example. You tend to see these all the time. Now, just because they're SO, that doesn't mean that they don't have the same different types of technologies, and I've got 'em right here. So here at the top, I've got a DDR4. DDR4 SO-DIMMs use a 260-pin package. Here's DDR3. DDR3 uses a 204-pin package. And then when it comes to anything before DDR3, it gets kind of fuzzy. So what I have here is a 200 and a 144 pin, but there is no perfect correlation of DDR2 will only use this, or DDR will only use that. So it's really only for the DDR3 and DDR4 where you can absolutely predict the package. Just because they're SO-DIMMs, nothing that we've talked about in other RAM episodes changes. They will often use dual channel, or even possibly, triple channel. You have to use the exact same types. They come in pairs. Nothing changes other than the fact they're a little bit smaller. So be comfortable with SOs, and if you've got a laptop, you're probably gonna be seeing these guys. All right, so the last thing I wanna talk about, it's actually something kind of fascinating. I dunno why I took these sticks away. Built into every RAM stick on Earth is a little bit of brains known as serial presence detect or SPD. Now, if you take a look at these three sticks in front of you, there's a little teeny tiny chip on every single one of these. On this one, it's right about here. On this guy, it's right about here. On this guy, it's way over in the corner. The SPD chip is an absolutely wonderful chip which allows your system to actually query the RAM chip and say, what's your capacity? How fast are you? What technology are you? Heck, it'll even tell you who made it, and what's your model number based on the manufacturer. The trick with SPD is you need a tool to be able to actually query that chip, and luckily for us, the wonderful CPUID's CPU-Z program does all this for us. Lemme show you. So I've got CPU-Z already up and running. Now, if you've watched other episodes, you've seen some of the CPU stuff, but what I wanna do in this case is go right over to SPD. Now when I click on this, this tool gives me all kinds of incredible information. First of all, it tells me that there's four slots on this particular motherboard, and I can click through on each one of these. So here in slot number one, I've got DDR4. It's an eight-gigabyte stick. A thousand megabytes is a gig. It's DDR4, it's made by Kingston. I even see what my DDR speed is here. It gives me everything that I wanna know. It even tells me what week and year it was made. It's absolutely amazing. Now, you might be tempted to look at all this stuff down here. Please stay away from this. This is used by overclockers to actually overclock their RAM. And unless you're overclocking, this is not an area you need to worry about. So while we're in here, there's a couple other things I like to make mention. So we'll see that, in the other bank, there's a different kind of memory. It's still DDR4. It's still the same speed, it's just a different brand. Now, one of the things that would be nice, if I clicked on this, and say I clicked on slot three and it was empty, that might be a really handy tool for me to be able to say, Hmm, could I snap more RAM into this system? And while we're here, there's also this generic memory that just basically gives you a quick overview. I've got DDR4 in here. I got 32 gigabytes of DDR4. It's dual channel and it's running at 3.2 gigahertz. So we've seen a number of RAM features in this episode, but I gotta tell you, I love SOs. They're absolutely fantastic. When it comes to parity and ECC, unless I'm working on a server, you're probably never gonna see it. But man, oh man, serial presence detect, I can't tell you how many times it saved me from crawling under a system, open it up just to see if I've got some RAM slots in case I wanted to add more RAM.