Speaker: Upgrading your RAM is one of the quickest and easiest tasks that you can you do to immediately increase your system performance. Whether you are doing a new PC build or simply updating your system in order to run the latest 3D game, you are going to need to know how to install and troubleshoot RAM. Speaker: Now, I have in front of me a couple of very similar looking RAM sticks. They both have these metallic heat spreaders. They both have a ton of pins, that I can't readily identify just by looking at them. And they're both blue. And I want to install RAM in this motherboard, but let's create a problem so that we can apply CompTIA A+ troubleshooting theory steps to this. Speaker: I'm gonna go ahead and take these nice looking HyperX Fury sticks and I actually want to install these in my motherboard here. And if you look down, I have a little--a little button here that I slide off, a little notch, a little lever and I'm gonna go ahead and put my RAM in. But something seems to be wrong. If you notice it doesn't actually go in. Maybe I have it the wrong way. Huh? No it - that's really weird. It doesn't fit at all. And in fact if you look, no matter which way I put this RAM, it doesn't actually line up with the notch on the actual RAM slot itself. So, My first thing is I've got to identify the problem. Which we've kind of just done. Well you know, This RAM doesn't fit in the slot, why? Well, Let's move on to step two and establish a theory. My theory right now is that more than likely this is the wrong type of RAM. Now that we have that theory established, lets go ahead and test that theory, but before I do, I want to make sure I refer to the manufacturers materials. Because they provide an excellent look on how to install and remove a DIMM. Just so I can verify that I am doing things the correct way for this piece of hardware. I've done that, I've looked through the manufacturer's information I've established, I've identify the problem, established my theory and now I'm going to test my theory. Well, I think that these are wrong. These sticks are the wrong generation. Now, I can--I can test this theory in a few ways, I can actually take a stick of RAM that I know is the right generation for this motherboard, right? The vendor's information told me that I need DDR4 and I know that these are DDR4 sticks and I can actually quite simply just try and line them up and see, and you'll notice that if I do that these notches do not line up at all. I definitely have the wrong RAM here. So, I've identified the problem, I've established a theory, we just tested the theory because our DDR4 RAM sticks do not line up and I know that this is a good pair. So now we are going to establish a plan of action to resolve the problem and implement our solution. And that's quite simple. I'm going to take the known good DDR4 sticks that I have. And I am going to set them into their slot and push them down until they lock. Boom. My RAM fits in there. I know that the problem I identified was sound. My resolutions works and now all I have to do is plug this and verify full system functionality and now the final step comes, the most important one, document the findings. You always want to make sure you keep a running log of all these little neat tips and tricks and things that you discover when you're out in the field and you're working with computers. If you keep that log running and if you keep those findings, outcomes documented well, you're going to have one heck of a resource going forward in your IT career.