-: One of the most fun aspects

about building your own systems is that you can go out

and buy some motherboard and then you can buy some case,

and 99.99% of the time they will fit together.

The reason they do that is that we have broad standards

in the industry that define very specific

physical dimensions for motherboards, for cases,

power supplies, even the holes in the motherboards

and how we mount them inside cases.

These very tight standards are known generically

as form factors.

Now in this episode, what I wanna do is cover

the form factors that you're gonna be seeing on the exam,

and just to give you some idea of how it works

and the motivations for doing form factors.

So if you take a look here on my desk,

what I have are three very different sized motherboards.

But what I wanna do first of all is let me stack these up.

Now look at this, as I stack up these motherboards,

one of the things I want you to notice

is that all of these have this what we call the IO area,

and this is where we put all of our in,

let me settle this down, I got too much coffee in me.

So all of these, if you notice that they kind of fit

in sort of the same space, that's really important

and that allows us to design cases that can accept,

as long as the case is physically big enough,

if you want this guy, you might want a really little case,

but I could fit this in a large case as well,

and that have this not only a particular design

but a particular area where we have this IO stuff.

So lemme go ahead and set these back down,

and let's make sure we know what these are.

The A+ exam defines four very specific types

of form factors.

Starting with this guy right here, this is known as ATX.

The ATX form factor's been around for over 20 years now.

It is extremely popular,

it's the biggest common form factor we have.

There are some uncommon form factors that you'll see

like in server systems and such,

fortunately those aren't covered on the exam.

But anyway, so this is an ATX,

so this is 12 inches by 9.6 inches,

and this is a very standard size, we see these all the time.

The next one on the exam is this fella right here,

and I'm gonna kinda hold it like this

so you can get an idea of what it looks like.

This is what we call micro ATX.

You'll see that it looks like about the same

as a regular ATX, although it's slightly cut off.

So this is 9.6 by 9.6 inches.

And the last one over here, this is what we call mini ITX.

This is a very small standard,

it's designed for really small systems.

Self-contained systems use these a lot.

Little home theater boxes, point of sale systems.

A lot of folks use these.

Now the nice thing about a mini ITX

is that it's about the smallest common form factor.

There are smaller ones,

but you're not gonna be able to put regular

AMD and intel and regular ram,

and you could even snap a video card in this thing,

it's got a a slot for it.

There is a fourth one that's mentioned on the exam

and CompTIA, why are you doing this to me?

CompTIA mentions another form factor called ITX,

which is a larger version of the mini ITX.

I work with hundreds of systems a month

and I have never ever touched in my hand

a full-blown ITX system.

In fact, it was even hard for me to get specs on ITX,

so that's why you don't see a ITX motherboard here,

because I'm Mike Myers,

popular author and video personality,

claim they don't exist.

Challenge me on that.

So make sure that you're comfortable

with these different types of sizes.

In particular, ATX is going to be the the main size

that we're going to see more than anything else.

Now form factors don't stop

with just the motherboards themselves,

because of form factors, we can do stuff like this.

This power supply right here,

which we know generically as an ATX power supply,

has standardized connectors.

Now, we have other episodes where we're gonna go deep

into connectors, but with these connectors,

I can plug this particular connector

into any one of these motherboards

and I can power any of these systems

with the same type of supply

because of the standardization of form factors.

Now it doesn't stop there.

Lemme show you one more thing.

So I've got this beautiful motherboard.

So I want to come in here, the motherboard box,

and I wanna pull something out.

Every motherboard comes with its own IO shield.

However, because of the standardization of form factors,

the actual shape of that IO shield is extremely fixed.

So even if I'm using a mini ITX or a micro ATX

or a full-size ATX, they all have the exact sized shields

which allows us to do something really cool.

Let me show you how all this works.

So look at this brand new humongous case that I just bought.

I bought a really big one

'cause I'm gonna be putting

lots of hard drives in it and such.

So the beauty of standardized IO shields

is that it doesn't really matter how big my case is

as long as the case is physically large enough

to handle the motherboard itself.

Oh, this is a little flibberty, but let's take a look here.

I just wanna hold it up so you guys can see this.

We can put just about any motherboard into any case,

have a nice tight connection like this and it looks good,

it gets good airflow,

and that's all because we have good form factors.