-: The original PC motherboards were an absolute mess. If you take a look down here on this particular motherboard, this is a very, very old motherboard, over 30 years old. If you take a look at this, one of the problems we ran into is look at all of these chips all over the place. This is where the CPU went. One of these chips did nothing but control the hard drives. Another chip did nothing but control this thing called a floppy drive. Another chip did nothing but controlled a built-in sound card which back then was pretty cool. Another chip did nothing but control serial ports. Another chip did nothing but control a mouse. So you had all of these highly specialized single purpose chips and this was pretty normal for the first 10-15 years of the PC world. Now, after a while, it became smart to go ahead and start making dedicated chips that took on all of these different jobs. These special purpose chips were known as chipsets. They're still known as chipsets. Now what I have here on this motherboard right here is one of the very earliest chipsets. Now, if you take a look you'll see that there are two separate chips here. These two chips, one's known as the northbridge the other one's known as the southbridge were designed to work together. You had to have both of these chips. The northbridge traditionally acted as the interface to the CPU. So the northbridge had the memory controller built into it. The northbridge handled high speed expansions buses. So the northbridge was always doing the fast stuff. The southbridge was the interconnection to the slower stuff. So if we would have in individual ports. You'd have a USB port or something like that. it would be the southbridge's job to handle the slower stuff. Over time, this changes. Northbridges and southbridges as chipsets in terms of their exact function have changed over and over and over again over the years. In fact, today's CPUs take over all of the northbridge functions. So today's chipsets are really just a southbridge. I've got one here on this modern system. I actually had to take off this heat sink. If you take a look right here that's a bunch of thermal paste on there. But that is the southbridge, which is the chip set. So chipsets are single chips in today's systems. The chipset is literally the most critical part of understanding the functions of what a particular system can do. When you're buying a motherboard what you're really buying is a chip set. In fact, chipsets are so important that motherboard manufacturers will advertise this. If you take a look at all these motherboard boxes you see that X299? Do you see that X470? Look down here. Here's another X470. Here's something that says B360N. These are the actual chipsets that these motherboards are supporting. It's the chipsets that define how many sticks of RAM you can support. It's the chipsets that define how many video cards you can put into your system. It's the chipsets that define how fast of RAM you can have. It's the chipsets that define how many USB ports you can support and what speed are these USB ports? It's the chip set that defines stuff like how many hard drives you can install. So when you're buying a motherboard, what you're really buying is a chipset more than anything else. 'cause you want it to support the things that you need for your system. So chipsets are so absolutely important that over the years as we get more and more chipsets for any one particular CPU, for example, you might have four or five different types of chipsets that do different jobs. So what I wanna do is put up a quick screen here. So here's one example of one CPU and the chipsets that you can use on that CPU. Now, as you're looking at this, you'll notice that each of these chipsets have different functionalities depending on what people need and when you're going out to buy yourself a motherboard, these little subtle differences become very, very important. So when I'm going out to build a system I don't spend a whole lot of time on the CPU but I spend an inordinately large amount of time on the motherboards and in particular the chipsets.