-: So previously, we discussed the types of heat sinks, fans and liquid cooling that are used to lower component temperatures. Now we will look at keeping your system cool through even the most difficult of tasks. So, let's go over here and take a look at our friend, the closed case once again. And one, the first thing I wanna point out to you is that whoever built this case, it was this guy here, did a fantastic job with cable management. You can see that the cables are perfectly routed behind the motherboard and only come out where they are. Now, this is, where they are needed. Excuse me. Now this is important because if you had cables just kind of shoved in there, we wouldn't have proper airflow that we need to actually cool the system. So keep that in mind. Proper cable management is actually a key component of keeping your system cool. Now we take a look at this. We have a bunch of fans in here, and you can see we have two fans here and we have, you can't really see down here, but the PSU has a fan on the bottom. And then we have a fan here. And two more here. So the whole thing about keeping a system cool is you wanna have spots to intake cool air and spots to exhaust hot air or warm air. And most of the time what we do is we set one or two fans at the front of the PC and maybe one at the bottom. And those are in charge with bringing our airflow in, our nice cool airflow in, right? They spin in, they suck the nice cool air in, and then we have our other fans which actually exhaust the hot air out the back and out the top of the machine. Very cool. So cable management is not the only way that you can keep your system flowing with a lot of air. As you notice here, I just noticed we got a little bit of dust there. This is gonna be one of your best friends. This is canned air. Now, canned air if you, you know, don't want to spend $8 a can or whatever it is these days. They also have like little PC blowers that don't produce any electrostatic discharge. And you can actually charge or plug them into the wall and use them to kind of blow this out. And it's like a perpetual canned air. But let's go ahead and get rid of this dust so that we can ensure a smooth airflow in our system. Perfect. It's that easy. Now, one more thing I want to talk about when we talk about cooling our systems is actually in the BIOS. Now, if we look at our BIOS here, yours is gonna look different. That's okay. Every single BIOS pretty much is different. However, somewhere in your BIOS, if you have a modern machine, is going to be a place where you can manage some thermal settings. And I actually found ours over here in the Hardware Monitor section. So I'm gonna click on that and you'll notice right here that I have a bunch I have access and control to, all the system fans that could be possibly plugged in in this system, the CPU fan. I can enable smart fan mode, or if I want to control the fan settings myself, I can disable that and manually set them all in exactly as I need it. So again, there's a lot of different ways to cool your system. What you wanna make sure of is that you have good cable management so that that air, that cool air, can flow in and that hot air can flow out. And you also wanna make sure that you open up your case and clean those components out from time to time.