-: What I've got in front of me is all kinds

of storage devices.

Storage, mass storage,

we can use those terms interchangeably.

Look, the bottom line is

is that your computer uses lots of data.

You store huge videos, you save great big games,

you've got big operating systems

that need a lot of storage space

and that's what all these different devices are for.

Now, when we talk about all these different devices

there's all kinds of different technology.

We have things like optical media,

we have things like old school, hard drives that spin.

We have solid state drives that are more popular these days.

But the bottom line is, is that it doesn't matter

what these devices are, they've all got

some kind of minimum storage space, an atom,

the smallest amount of storage they can handle

and they're all kind of divided into this.

Like with hard drives, it can be something called a sector

which could be 512 bytes or 4,096 bytes.

With SSDs, we use something called blocks,

which can be around a thousand bytes.

With optical media, we use tracks that can be

somewhere around a little over a thousand bytes.

The bottom line is, is that all storage devices

without exception are bazillions of some kind of atom

that varies between the different technologies.

What ties them all together, and the way your computer looks

at all these devices is something called LBA.

Lemme show you how that works.

So if we take a look at an old school hard drive

inside that hard drive are zillions of these sectors

and each sector stores about 4,096 bytes of data.

Logical block addressing is nothing more

than some controller circuitry.

It's a little bit of hardware

and with a little help of software

that acts as an interface between your operating system

and all your different storage devices.

If your operating system needs to save a big file

what it's going to do

is it's going go up to the counter of LBA

and it's gonna say, "I wanna save this big file,

blahblahblah.mp4."

And the LBA person is then gonna go ahead and take it

and he's going to allocate blocks.

Now on this hard drive right here

it's about a four terabyte hard drive.

So its blocks are broken up into 4,096 piece chunks.

Each block is around 4,096 bytes.

And because it's a big drive, it goes from about

zero all the way to almost, you ready?

1 billion blocks.

So your operating system just says, here's the file,

but it's your LBA that actually allocates

however many blocks are necessary to save that big MP4.

The cool part about LBA is that it, in essence,

it's the device driver for all

of the different types of storage on our system.

When you install hard drives,

when you install optical media, when you install an SSD,

you don't have to, unless extremely rare cases,

you don't have to put in a device driver along with it

because LBA is inherent to all operating systems.

All mass storage devices, pretty much,

if you plug them in the right way and you make sure

that your BIOS understands that it's there,

they pretty much just work.

And I need you to remember that

as we go through other episodes.

All you gotta do is plug in mass storage,

make sure it works within the BIOS

and the operating systems will automatically see it.

Not to say we might not wanna do a few more things,

but they'll be there and that's the important point.

Now, the other issue we run into with mass storage

is the concept of capacity.

We live in a world where we count

with really really big numbers.

And I'm pretty sure most folks have heard terms like

megabyte and gigabyte and terabyte and that type of thing.

But the challenge we run into is that

there's two different ways to count

to a million and a billion and a trillion.

Let's start by counting in the more classic sense.

In base 10 mathematics, we count in terms of zero

through nine, and then when we get to nine we add a zero

on the end and make tens or one hundreds or thousands.

So I'm gonna start off with the sample value

and that is going to be 1000.

So when you see 1000, we call that a kilo.

This is just a number, it's not an actual unit.

Now when we're talking about memory and things like that,

if we have 1000 kilos that's equal to a million

and we call that a mega.

If we have 1000 megas, we call that a giga.

And if we have 1000 gigas, we call it a tera.

Oh, let's just keep going for fun.

A thousand teras is a peta, and a thousand petas,

which would equal this really, really big number is an exa.

When we're counting quantities in base 10 mathematics,

the numbers that you and I love, these gigas and megas

and peta and exas are an easy way for us to manifest

very, very large values.

However, these values are great for things like

how many blocks are on a storage device.

And it's great for if I've got a whole lot of bananas, say,

but we run into a big problem when we're counting in binary.

Let me show you what I mean.

In my CPU videos in this series,

I talk about something called a man in box as the CPU.

And we also talk about something called

an external data bus, which is nothing more than

eight light bulbs with eight light switches

on the inside and outside of a box.

The beautiful part about the external data bus

is it provides us a communication medium.

However, there's something we're always interested in,

how many different patterns are there.

And therefore, by knowing the number of patterns,

we get to know how many different things

we can say to somebody.

So for example, if I've got eight wires

the math is actually pretty straightforward.

We use something, it's two to the eighth,

trust me when I tell you this,

and that value is equal to 256 different patterns.

So in a binary world we're always interested

in the number of different patterns.

For example, if I've got an address bus,

so I want to have my CPU to be able to talk to RAM,

and this address bus has, for this particular example,

10 wires on it, we have two to the 10th

or 1024 different patterns between 10 zeros and 10 ones

and all the different combinations in between.

In fact, this becomes so important

that we break these binary counts into values.

Like for example, start here.

So we have two to the 10th, which traditionally

was called a kilo, but because people were confusing that

with the number 1000, we instead used the value kibi.

A kilo is a thousand, but a kibi is

two to the 10th power, or 1024.

So let's make this go away for a moment.

Now we can keep counting like this.

So two to the 10th is equal to kibi.

Two to the 20th is a mebi.

Two to the 30th is a gibi.

Two to the 40th is a tebi.

Two to the 50th is a pebi, and two to the 60th is an exbi.

So we literally have two numbering systems.

And here's the big challenge,

these guys tend to have numbers that are kind of similar.

So a kilo is pretty close to a kibi.

And a mega is pretty close to a mebi.

So we'll just do this one really quick.

So a mega is a million, a mebi is 1,048,576.

It's pretty close and the problem keeps going here.

So if we count out a full giga and compare that to a gibi

you'll see these numbers are very, very close.

So let's go ahead and put both sets of values up.

So here on the left is going to be our decimal values.

And here on the right, actually we call these IEC values,

when you say kibi and mebi and stuff like that, and you see

that they kind of bring up fairly similar values.

The whole challenge behind decimal versus IEC counting

is the problem that in our industry

we can use both values, and we run into trouble.

For example, if you install a four terabyte hard drive

in your computer, the people who sell you the drive

they're doing that for terabytes in decimal values.

But when you plug it into your computer

your computer is interested in LBA values,

which are binary, and then the end result is,

is when you query your computer and say,

"How much capacity I have?"

It's gonna give you a slightly different value.

It's not like some of your hard drive

magically disappears here, folks.

It's just that the hard drive manufacturers count

in one way and operating systems when they're talking

to the drives count in a different way.

So you're going to see this variance all the time

when we're dealing with mass storage.

Don't worry about it, it's just different ways of counting.

Okay, now the last thing I wanna talk about

as we just dip our toe into mass storage

is I wanna talk about physical sizes.

We've got plenty of other episodes

that they're gonna talk about

how we plug them in and all that.

In this little piece I just wanna make sure

you're comfortable with size.

So let's start with this right here.

This is optical media

and this is what we call a five and a quarter inch.

It's five and a quarter inches wide.

Five and a quarter inch format has been around

since literally before PCs were invented

and we still use them for pretty much optical media,

and that's about it.

I'm sure there's something else I'm not thinking of.

The next step down from that is three and a half.

So this is three and a half inches across.

Three and a half has been the dominant form

for mass storage for many, many decades.

It's still out there in big order.

Really, really high capacity hard drives,

for example, will use this size.

We see it out there all the time.

Next is two and a half,

so that's two and a half inches across here.

This size was originally designed mainly

for laptops and mobile devices,

but today it's become so popular because we can pack

so many of them together that you'll see

two and a half inch format storage devices

even in big server systems.

The last one I wanna mention is 1.8.

This did not get a lot of traction. It's out there.

The 1.8 format was very popular with SSDs,

but unfortunately, or fortunately,

depending on how you look at it,

something else came along and totally unseated it.

M.2 is the dominant format

for solid state devices on most systems today.

So like I said, we're gonna have plenty

of other episodes where we're gonna drill

into all of these devices a lot deeper.

But as our initial takeaway, number one,

understand that we have this thing called LBA,

that no matter what we plug into our computers

we don't really have to deal

with device drivers or anything.

Pretty much, if they're plugged in right,

your system's gonna see it,

and it works for every operating system.

Number two, we have to deal with capacities,

and we live in a world right now where we have

a competition between classic metric base 10 counting

and binary counting.

And don't let it fool you if you suddenly plug something in

and then something else looks at it

and gives you a slightly different value.

It's okay. It's just different ways of counting.

And the last thing I wanna make sure

you're comfortable with are these formats.

As we go through all these different types of storage

you're gonna be seeing these physical sizes

over and over again.

Be comfortable with those numbers.