-: This, my friends, are the inner workings

of a classic hard disk drive.

These big, round,

shiny things you're looking at are platters.

And while you can't see it,

they actually store ones and zeros

through little, teeny-tiny bits of magnetism.

Incredibly small.

We read this, and if I give it a little electricity,

you can actually see this happen

by this little arm that's gonna go back and forth.

This arm is going back and forth.

It is within nanometers of contact,

but it isn't actually touching the platters themselves.

So that little read/write head picks up the ones and zeros

or sets them down depending on where your needs are.

Now, you can't see this because you can't see magnetism.

But if you could see magnetism,

you'd see that it stores in the little atom.

The most smallest amount it can store

is what we call a sector,

and it would look something like this.

Hard disk drives have been around for ages,

and one of the things that's challenging about it

is that they've gone through a lot of different iterations,

and shapes, and sizes.

So let's at least get the idea

of physical sizes out of the way.

So if you take a look right here,

you'll see I've got two hard disk drives.

By the way, you see the term HDD used a lot.

Remember, a hard disk drive

has to have something spinning on the inside.

So if you take a look, even on this 2 1/2-inch,

you'll see there's a little motor in there,

and that's spinning little tiny platters as well.

There's even a smaller size, 1.8 physical size drives.

I can't find one.

I want one, if you know where one is,

contact me, I'll buy it from you.

Okay, so when it comes to physical size,

3 1/2 and 2 1/2 are gonna be your big sizes.

We have capacities

back in the early '90s when these came out,

they would have capacities as low as maybe 20 megabytes.

Today, single hard drives can have capacities

in excess of 16 terabytes.

So that just gives you an idea

of how long this particular type of drive has been around.

Now, if we're going to talk to these drives,

we need to have a language.

If we wanna talk to the guy at the gate,

we need to speak LBA's language.

To do that, we first of all have a number of terms

we gotta get clear.

The first term is the language itself.

The language is called Advanced Technology Attachment,

or ATA.

The original hard disk drive spoke this language.

And the latest ones

that we can go out to the store and buy today

still speak this language.

However, the physical interface has changed.

The original one was something called parallel ATA, or PATA,

and you're never gonna see it on a system,

unless you work with really, really old computers.

What we do see today

is something called Serial ATA, or SATA.

So, let me give you some examples of SATA.

Now, right here,

in fact, we can do this on the 2 1/2-inch drive.

These little connectors are SATA connectors.

Interestingly enough,

this larger connector is the power connector

and this smaller connector is the data connector.

So if you wanna use this drive,

you're gonna have to give it electricity

and then you're gonna have to plug it

into the computer itself.

So let's go ahead and just plug in the power part.

So I've got a power connector right here

and you can see it's got a little tiny L key,

in this case on the right,

and I just plug it in,

and I've now successfully plugged in the power.

Now, when it comes to the data side,

this is one example of a SATA cable.

The SATA cable has just one connection on each end

and it's got a little L connector.

And for me to plug this guy in,

now I've got everything plugged in on the hard drive side.

Well, that's only half of the equation.

The other part we've gotta do

is get this plugged into the motherboard.

Pretty much all motherboards today

have built-in SATA controllers.

If you need to,

you can actually buy an expansion card and get more SATA.

But right now, pretty much any motherboard you're gonna want

is gonna have SATA built right in.

Let me show you what we're talking about there.

On this motherboard right here,

you'll see I've got six white SATA connectors

and then a blue one.

The extra connector is,

well, I'm gonna have to check the motherboard book.

I'm not sure why it's there.

It's probably just a seventh connector.

Anyway, the bottom line is,

is I can plug into any one of these.

This has a handy little 90-degree angle

that a lot of people like to use.

They're not required.

And what I can do here is if, let's get this all pretty,

and you can see that I'm plugged into the motherboard

and the cable comes over into the drive,

and then we have power.

That's all there is to the physical connectivity

of this type of drive.

They're really, really easy to use and they're a lot of fun.

In fact, SATA was so popular that a few years ago,

they came out with a version of SATA

that's designed for external devices.

There's nothing in here, but a bunch of SATA drives,

and they're interface together

through a little connection known as eSATA.

Let show you how this works.

So on this motherboard right here, if you take a look,

this is an eSATA connection.

It's just a SATA connection,

but it's designed to be used externally.

It has a special cable.

It's a little more reinforced, a little more grounded,

and let me go ahead and plug in here,

and I've got that in plugged in.

And then I take whatever device I'm using

and I can plug in there.

And if we take a look at this,

I've now plugged in an external device,

eSATA is on the exam.

But do be aware that

because of great advances in the last few years with USB,

eSATA has kind of taken a back seat.

So for a lot of people,

they don't use eSATA anymore except for people like me

because I've got this wonderful eSATA external drive.

I still need it.

So what I'm gonna do is I can go buy something like this,

and this is just an eSATA expansion card.

The nice part about a card like this

is I can just snap it into a motherboard,

a more modern motherboard that doesn't have eSATA,

and I can still continue to use

my favorite external eSATA storage device,

even though my new motherboards don't support eSATA anymore.

Okay.

If you've plugged everything in the right way,

all you need to do at this point

is boot your computer up and go into your system setup.

And that hard drive should be visible.

So I'm gonna go ahead and take a minute

and get this white box up and cooking.

I'm gonna plug in one of these SATA drives

and I'll meet you in system setup.

Whew! Okay, man.

I'll tell you, today's modern systems,

with all their extra lighting and all that

makes it a lot harder to plug in a hard drive

than it used to be.

All right, anyway, so it's physically plugged in,

and I've gone ahead and I've booted up the system.

So let's go ahead and take a look in the system setup

and see that hard drive.

Now, that I've booted into my system setup,

I'm gonna have to try to find

where the hard drives are located.

Every one of these system setups is different.

On this one, I'm gonna look under Boot,

and I can see right here that it says,

"Plugged into port number 6 is WDC."

Now, that stands for Western Digital

just 'cause I've read a lot of these.

And here's the actual model number itself.

The fact that it shows up in my system setup

says that I have done everything physically correct

to get this drive installed.

There's nothing else that I have to do

in terms of plugging or connecting.

All we're gonna have to do now

is boot into an operating system

and go ahead and set it up

so that the operating system itself can use that drive.

So good job.

Instructor: Thanks for that, Mike.

But since we're talking about magnetic disk drives

or spindle drives,

I also thought I'd point out

that their main classification these days,

as far as efficiency,

is typically done through their speed,

their RPM or revolutions per minute.

And if you look at the top of this disk drive here,

you'll notice that it actually says Barracuda 7200.

This one is a 7,200 RPM hard drive.

But what does that mean?

Well, let's take my handy torque screwdriver here

and take the lid off and look at the insides.

So you'll notice here with this mechanical hard drive,

as we have a lot of moving parts,

thus the name mechanical hard drive,

we have our platter here where the information is stored.

We have our read arm, and our access drive,

and all sorts of cool stuff.

Now, following proper power handling and safety procedures,

let's go ahead and plug this in with SATA power

and take a look at how fast that platter

can actually spin up.

Now, keep in mind, this is a 7,200-RPM platter,

but you'll also have ones that are 5,400 RPM,

or 10,000, or 15,000, and even higher than that.

But these are mechanical hard drives

and this is how it works.

That platter spins very fast,

and that read arm seeks and finds its data

and pulls it up and brings it into your computer for you.

Pretty, pretty neat.