-: The most popular type of mass storage we see

on today's systems is called solid-state drives, or SSDs.

That's not to say that hard disk drives

still don't have a place on our systems,

it's just that solid-state drives are traditionally

a lot faster and it's something

that we like to use primarily as our boot system.

It's not at all uncommon to see one system

that has SSDs and HDDs all buckled into it at the same time.

Anyway, here's a typical SSD.

So if you look at this,

two and a half inch format, no big deal.

So it looks like a little case on the outside,

but on the inside it looks something like this.

So as we strip away the case,

what you're going to be seeing

is a lot of electronic chips on there,

and if we could open up one of those chips

and look with some super duper microscope,

we would see that SSDs are organized into pages.

So a single physical chip might have

hundreds or thousands of pages.

Within a page itself,

we get to the atom of all SSDs, a block.

So a single page can store lots and lots and lots of blocks.

Regardless the case, as far as your system's concerned,

each one of those blocks is assigned an LBA number,

and we can just plug these guys in.

So it works out pretty easily.

SSDs come in a number of sizes.

Probably the most common one is we're gonna see right here.

So this is a two and a half inch SSD.

The other one that is extremely common

is this fella right here.

These little sticks are called M.2.

So if you take a look,

this is a little shorty looking fella

and here's a big long one.

So we have, these are the two sizes that are most common.

The big challenge we run into with SSDs are the interfaces.

Now first generation SSDs, and we still see them today,

use the same good old SATA interface

that we saw with hard disk drives.

So for example, if you take a look at this guy one more time

you're gonna see the traditional SATA connection

for power and for data.

So it's actually kind of interesting.

The first time people run into SSDs, they're like

wait a minute, I can just unplug my hard disk drive

and plug in an SSD.

Yeah, thank goodness for LBA and the ATA interface.

They just, they're interchangeable.

However, one of the challenges we run in with SSDs is that

they're very, very fast compared to hard disk drives.

So we wanted to speed up that interface.

So the traditional SATA interface runs at a maximum

of around six gigabits per second, which sounds really fast

but we want to run even faster.

So we have another standard

because we're plugging these M.2 drives,

they plug right into the motherboard,

we have another standard called NVMe.

I don't remember what NVMe stands for.

Here, put it up on the screen for me.

Whew.

Thank God for my production guys

when I forget the names of an acronym.

Anyway, so NVMe drives will only manifest traditionally

as M.2, although there can be exceptions.

So I wanna take one more look

at these two M.2 drives I have here in front of me.

As we look over here on your right,

you'll see this one has two notches on the M.2,

and the one on your left here has a single notch.

The one on the right is SATA,

just good old traditional SATA.

The one on the left is NVMe.

NVMe is much faster than SATA.

And on top of that, the system itself takes the job

of the hard drive controller, all the LBA stuff.

So there isn't even really an interface

between the CPU and your mass storage,

so it makes things a lot faster.

The only downside is, is that with your M.2 connections,

they're either gonna be SATA or they're gonna be NVMe.

So if you try to plug the wrong one

into the wrong connection, you won't blow anything up.

It just won't work.

So when you're buying M.2 drives,

here's some boxes that M.2 drives came in.

If you look right here,

I mean these boxes look pretty much identical

but you'll see this one advertises themself as NVMe,

and this one's a little bit smaller

but he advertises himself as SATA.

If you're gonna be buying M.2,

and if you're building your own systems,

you probably will be, you always wanna make sure

that your motherboard has

the right type of connector that you want.

NVMe is becoming quite common today.

There's lots of motherboards out there

that have M.2, but they're only SATA.

So when you're buying your M.2,

make sure you're getting the right interface

for your motherboard and it's,

read the motherboard book, read the box,

not that hard to do.

Get NVMe if you can.

Alright, so what I wanna do now is

I actually wanna install some SSDs.

Well, let's go ahead and start with NVMe.

Now, to do this, I'm gonna have to do a little surgery

to get into this white box.

Let's go ahead and do that surgery and drop in an NVMe M.2.

On this particular motherboard,

the M.2 connectors are underneath this heatsink.

So let me pull this off.

I've already unscrewed it, and if you look right here,

you can see an M.2 connector.

Now you'll notice it only has one notch,

so we instantly know it's NVMe.

There's actually another one right here.

I can put two M.2 drives on this particular system.

So I'm gonna pull him out of the box.

Let's do a little surgery here.

So I'm gonna go ahead and just insert this.

There we go.

I got it in.

And from this point,

I'll just put in a screw to screw it down

and I'll drop the heatsink back on,

and it'll be ready to go.

So let's go ahead and get that bolted down.

And one more time, let's go into our system setup.

Cross our fingers that our M.2 drive is going to appear.

All right, so I'm all booted up here.

So on this particular system setup,

I know I have to go to boot.

And if I take a look, you'll see that I have

a Samsung SSD.

It's always good to know the model numbers

because a lot of times when you're reading

on the system setup, it's hard to get an idea.

Now notice it also says M one.

So that means I've got two connectors for M.2s.

This is M.2 connector number one.

So the fact that I've got it plugged in

and showing up on my system setup

says I've done everything I need to do to get it running.

Let's do it one more time.

In fact, I'm gonna go ahead and leave the M.2 in.

And let's set up this SSD

which has a traditional SATA connector.

Gimme one sec.

I'm just setting the SATA drive here on the power supply

just so we can plug it in.

I'm not going to permanently mount it

because I don't want it to be a permanent part

of my setup at this moment,

but it's SATA, so I plug in a data

and I plug in a power, and this guy's ready to go.

So I've got him all plugged in.

So all I need to do at this point is give him,

I'm gonna reboot the computer real quick

and then come back into system set up,

and he should show up here.

By the way, remember I kept the M.2 in here as well,

so this time we should see two drives.

Okay, so we're back into our system setup.

Let's go over to boot and ooh, look at that.

I can see both drives at once.

So that's pretty much all there is in terms of setup.

Physically, I've got an M.2 in here.

I've got a traditional SATA SSD.

The only thing I need to do now

is boot into an operating system

and set 'em up so the Windows or Linux or Mac OS

can actually work with those drives.