-: The beautiful thing about today's mass storage

is the overwhelming popularity of the ATA interface.

SATA controls all kinds of hard disk drives and SSDs.

It is the thing that we use.

Well, not exactly.

We need to go back in time a little bit and take a look

at some old mass storage devices

that I've got right here in front of me.

So take a look at these two guys.

First of all, note these cables.

What you're looking at here

on your left was called parallel ATA,

it was parallel 'cause they had a whole bunch

of wires in here that all were talking at the same time.

Now, over here on the right is a drive known

as SCSI, stands for small computer systems interface.

This drive, which is about 25 years old right here,

by the way, used a parallel interface.

You'll notice it's wider,

that had its own type of connection.

The whole idea behind SCSI

is that SCSI was developed about the same time as ATA.

So they were competing languages.

They were incompatible with each other.

If you wanted to use SCSI,

you had to get a SCSI controller.

If you wanted to use parallel ATA,

you had to have a parallel ATA controller.

Because they were competitors,

they were always competing with different types of features.

For example, with the old parallel ATA drives,

you could only put two and much later,

four hard drives in a system.

Whereas with SCSI, you could put,

sometimes seven, sometimes 15 drives in a system.

So there were all of these benefits,

you saw these SCSI drives in server systems

and that type of thing.

However, these types of drives are dead.

In today's world, we live in serial connections.

So these big, wide parallel cables are gone.

The ATA language is the same,

but instead of going through a bunch of parallel cables,

it goes through a serial connection.

And the same thing happened with SCSI years ago.

Today, when we talk about SCSI with mass storage,

we talk about a very specific type of drive

called serial attached SCSI.

Now, here's a picture of a serial attached SCSI connector

on a system.

If you look at it closely, you'll go,

"That looks like a SATA connection."

And it is very similar to it,

although they're not absolutely compatible.

That's really the cool thing about SCSI.

Even though SCSI doesn't really have its own type

of big, parallel connectors anymore

and even serial attached SCSI isn't very popular,

we see SCSI in a lot of crazy places.

In fact, another place you're gonna see SCSI

in what's known as iSCSI.

iSCSI simply means that you have SCSI devices

that are connected to your computer via ethernet cable.

So the only place you're gonna be seeing SCSI anymore

is going to be in server situations.

We'd never see it on a desktop anymore.

But it is on the exam and be comfortable

with the terminology, make sure you know what SAS is,

make sure you know what iSCSI is,

'cause you're gonna see it on the test.

