-: Now I'm gonna give you a little bit of insight

into what you can expect to see

on the CompTIA A+ 220-1101 Core 1 hardware part of the exam.

And this is CompTIA's official objectives PDF.

And don't worry if you don't catch all this in the video,

because I'm actually gonna include all of this

in the resources for ya.

Let's take a look at some of the exam details.

So the Core 1 has a maximum number of questions of 90.

And also, those questions are gonna be a mix

between performance-based and multiple choice.

And you might be wondering what performance-based is.

Well, when I take these exams,

it seems that they frontload a lot

of more simulated type questions.

So instead of just answering multiple choice question,

you actually have to show that you know

what you know and you have the skills

to do what you say you do.

So they might walk you through reconnecting a device

or maybe identifying some cables

and the common adapters at the end.

But those performance-based questions

are typically frontloaded at the beginning of the exam,

and they're called performance-based

because if you do good on the first one

or do good on one, it kinda scales up the difficulty

and gives you one a little bit more difficult

for the next one.

And it keeps continuing like that.

So you have multiple choice and performance-based questions

on the exam.

And you actually have a maximum time of 90 minutes.

So this might be something that you might need to practice.

I strongly suggest for both exams

that you take as many practice exams as possible.

You can find them all over online,

but take them.

Take all of them that you can find and time yourself.

Because that time limit's critical

and it will come up quickly.

And once again, the recommended experience for this

is 12 months or more of hands-on experience

in a help desk support technician,

desktop support technician,

or field service technician job role.

And the minimum passing score is a 675

on a scale of 100 to 900.

So you can miss a few questions

and still comfortably pass.

So let's take a look at some of the exam objectives

and the domains included with the A+ 220-1101.

As we can see here,

mobile devices is actually up quite a bit.

So we have about 15% of our questions on mobile devices,

which is gonna cover anything from your cellphones,

tablets, even laptops, all sorts of things

about troubleshooting hardware and software

and dealing with malware and BYOD.

And just all sorts of topics are baked

into the mobile devices section.

Then we have 20% of the questions composed

in networking, right?

So we talk about LANs and WANs and wireless WANs

and all sorts of ways that we can connect

and communicate online.

Then we get into one of the bigger portions

is the hardware section.

You need to know how to identify certain pieces of hardware

and cables and adapters and also know

which scenarios you should use those in.

And we also have one of the newer additions

is the virtualization and cloud computing.

Hey, we are virtualizing everything these days,

and CompTIA is making note of that

by making 11% of this exam about virtualization

and cloud computing.

And finally, we have hardware and network troubleshooting,

which composes almost 1/3 of the exam.

So hopefully that clues to you

or hopefully that clues you in that you need

to really focus on that area,

especially the CompTIA A+ troubleshooting theory steps.

And there we go.

That's the main objectives and some details

about the CompTIA A+ 220-1101 Core 1 hardware exam.