-: If you really wanna see RAID in action,

the most fun way to do it, in my opinion, is hardware RAID.

Now, hardware RAID means

that we have some kind of groovy high-end controller

that is actually talking to the hard drives

and helps configure them as RAID 0, or RAID 1,

or RAID 5, or RAID 10, or whatever it might be,

and it does all the configuration.

And then when we boot into the operating system,

this big array that we've set up

just shows up as a single drive letter.

Now, you don't necessarily

have to have a high-end controller these days.

If you've got a desktop system,

lots and lots, more than 50%

of all desktop motherboards these days

have built-in RAID controllers

soldered to the motherboard,

and this one certainly does.

So what I've got here is my big box,

and I've got one, two, three, four,

identical four terabyte hard drives all buckled in.

Now, you've gotta be a little bit careful

when you're setting up RAID in these types of systems.

Right now, I'm booting off an M.2 drive

and it's got Windows installed ready to go.

So what we're gonna have to do first of all

is we're gonna have to go into the motherboard

and we're gonna have to look for a setting that says,

"Don't treat these guys as regular hard drives.

They're known as AHCI, regular old hard drives.

Instead, treat them as a RAID array."

The moment we do this, a whole new extra,

not nearly as fancy as a system setup we've seen before,

but another system setup is gonna show up,

not for us to configure the system,

but just to configure the RAID array.

So what I wanna do right now

is let's go ahead and boot this system,

go into the system setup,

and let's change this from AHCI to RAID.

I've gone ahead and booted into my system setup

because I want you to see all the different drives

I have in here.

So right now what I've got

is four four terabyte setup hard drives.

Now, right now you can see this is actually interesting,

he advertises this really big as AHCI mode

which basically means we can't do any

of this groovy RAID stuff.

Now also notice, right there underneath my mouse,

you'll see where it says Samsung SSD

that already has Windows 10 installed on it.

So what I'm gonna do is go from AHCI mode to RAID mode,

and every system setup has some option.

On this one, it's just kind of particularly pretty

and easy to get to.

And now I've set it to RAID mode.

Now that it's on RAID mode,

those four drives are in essence gonna disappear

and they're gonna be dedicated to be RAID drives,

and we're gonna see a completely different system setup

show up as soon as I reboot this system.

Now watch really carefully, watch closely.

You're gonna see something you didn't see before.

Right there.

Did you see that?

It said Control R.

Ladies and gentlemen,

welcome to your first hardware RAID array.

As you can see, because we switched from AHCI to RAID,

we now see these four four terabyte SATA drives ready to go.

So what we're gonna do is we're gonna go ahead

and create an array.

I've actually been in here for a moment

and I went through that initialization already.

So let's go ahead and create an array.

Now it's gonna say, which disc do you want for this array?

So I'm just for fun, I'm gonna say all four.

And there in the lower right hand corner,

it says A for all and enter when you're done.

So it says, okay, you've given me four drives.

What kind of RAID array do you want?

And right now, I can see there are some options.

I can do RAID0, I can do RAID10,

and I'm very disappointed to see

look what happens when I select RAID5.

Look at the upper left hand corner.

I guess these guys want a little more money

off of me or something.

Or maybe there's a flashable rom

I can get there.

I can get these to all light up, but it still works fine.

Let's go ahead and just do a RAID10.

So it's making sure

that I've got all the information I want here.

So, okay, here we go.

And it actually has a caching mode.

In this particular case, I'm going to ignore that.

I just want regular RAID here.

And then C for confirm.

And I have made an array,

so that's actually kind of fascinating.

What I've done is I've made a RAID10

simply by going into this system right here,

getting that control R,

and it's up and ready to go.

The last thing to do at this point

is to just continue on to the boot.

Let's boot into Windows

and see our RAID array the way Windows sees it.

Now, as we boot into disk management, you'll see, hey,

it's seeing a new drive and we still make it MBR or GPT.

I'm a GPT kind of guy so we'll go here.

And now all of a sudden,

here we have this big old two terabyte drive

because when it comes to hardware,

the operating system only sees the array

as it's set up from the RAID controller.

So I don't know if you noticed

while we were setting up the RAID array,

that there were some extra options,

some kind of special features.

For example, I believe we saw something

called a hot spare in there,

or a swappable drive.

What we're talking about is with RAID

you can do some cool stuff.

Remember, the beauty of RAID is that if one drive dies

then another drive can be plugged in and replace it.

With certain hardware RAIDs,

you can have that drive sitting there ready to go.

It sits there for months and does nothing,

until that one magic day when one of your drives die

and it automatically jumps in.

It doesn't physically move, but it automatically jumps in

and rebuilds your array automatically.

You come in later, just pull out the bad hard drive,

shove another one in, and you've got another

what we call a hot spare ready to go.

Now we gotta be careful with the term hot swappable.

Hot swappable simply means

that I don't have to shut my system down

to yank out a hard drive and plug it back in.

Unfortunately, on this system, it really can't be done.

We can make a spare, but in order to make it swappable,

we'd have to use a much more advanced controller

than the free one that comes with my system.

We already saw they were a little cheap on the licensing.

So if I really wanna do hardware RAID correctly,

I'm probably gonna have to go out and spend

$300 to $400 on a really advanced controller.

It gives me a little extra control

and I don't have to worry about licensing fees.