-: I love my little laptop.

It's absolutely fantastic.

It's powerful, it does what I need it to do.

Unfortunately, it's an incredibly portable device,

and I'm notorious for leaving this at the back of Ubers,

and at people's kitchen tables,

and on trains, and on airplanes.

And that's a bit of a problem

because I've got company secrets on here

and I need to protect them.

So in this episode,

what I wanna talk about is the concept of encryption.

Now, what I'm talking about here when I say encryption,

I'm talking about encrypting the storage devices

that we have on our systems.

So for me, there's really two storage devices

I'm gonna worry about right now.

I've got the built-in SSD

that's got my windows and some storage there,

and I've got that in two partitions,

and I've also got a thumb drive with me.

So for me, what I wanna do

is go through the process of encrypting these,

so if I'm not around, then other people can't read it.

Now, when we talk about how encryption works,

there are two ways to do this.

There's what we call file-based

and then there's what we call disk-based.

File-based means that there's some kind of software feature

built into the operating system

where you can pick a particular file or a particular folder,

and say, "Go ahead and encrypt this."

Disk-based encryption is some type of tool

that is built into the operating system,

and there could be third party as well.

And what you'll do is you'll go in and say,

"I want the entire C Drive encrypted,"

or, "I want the entire D Drive encrypted,"

or, "I want the entire thumb drive encrypted."

So we have two very different ways to do this.

In Windows, we use Encrypting File System, or EFS.

EFS is actually built in to the NT file system.

It's built in NTFS.

And as long as you format a particular partition with NTFS,

you can use EFS.

Now, other operating systems aren't quite as beautiful

when it comes to file-level encryption.

With the Mac operating system, there's no built-in tool,

although there are a number

of excellent third-party products.

And in Linux, there are so many

that it's actually a little confusing.

You pick one particular file-level encryption,

it'll do whatever job you wanna do.

So we're gonna go ahead and do this with Windows.

So I'm gonna go ahead

and use Encrypting File System on my laptop right here.

Using Encrypting File System is trivially easy.

All of my partitions on this laptop are format as NTFS.

So I can go up to any file or folder and encrypt it.

Now, you can see I have this very secret

Company Secrets PDF here in the upper left-hand corner.

So I just right-click on that.

I select Properties.

And now, down here under Attributes,

you'll see a little button called Advanced.

And then I click on Encrypt contents to secure data.

And all I gotta do is hit OK and hit OK.

Now, what it's asking now, it's like,

"Well, wait a minute,

you've got a lot of stuff in this folder.

Do you wanna encrypt this file as well as the parent folder,

which means any other things that are in the desktop folder,

or do you want me to only encrypt the file?"

In this case, I'm gonna say, "Just the file, please."

And as you can now see by that little lock,

we have encrypted that PDF.

Once I've set a file to be encrypted with EFS,

anytime I log in, it automatically unencrypts itself

and it's instantly available to use.

Once my system is shut off or even if the system's on,

but someone else is signed in and trying to get to it,

it's totally encrypted and it's very, very protected.

I am unaware of anybody,

including law enforcement here in the United States,

who've been able to crack NTFS

Encrypting File System at this point.

You never know.

So that's good.

But sometimes, I'm in a situation

where I really want to encrypt something hard,

and when I'm talking this,

I'm talking, "I wanna lock down an entire partition

in such a way that it has super high-level encryption

and nobody can get to it."

In that case, we're talking about having to use

some type of disk-based encryption.

Now, in the Windows world, we always turn to BitLocker.

BitLocker is fabulous, it works great.

With the macOS, we have something called FileVault.

And again, with Linux, we've got so many options

I'm not even gonna try to go there.

The Linux folks have all kinds of fun toys.

So the important thing to understand

about disk-level encryption

is that in order for this to work,

we have to have some kind of key, some kind of lock.

And what we have

is something known as Trusted Platform Module, or TPM.

TPM manifests as a chip that's plugged into a motherboard

or soldered into a motherboard in the case of these laptops,

and built into this chip is a very robust key.

And without that key,

you are never ever gonna unlock that thing.

So if somebody even yanked the hard drive out of my system,

it wouldn't have the key with it

and it would be completely stopped dead in its tracks.

So the first thing we have to do

is make sure that we have the TPM turned on.

Now, this is important.

On a desktop system,

the TPM module is often a separate product

that we plug into the motherboard,

and then we go through and turn it on

through our system set up.

But again, with almost all laptops,

they have a TPM module built in.

So let's go into our system setup

and make sure the TPM module's turned on.

All right, so now I'm in my system setup,

and I'm just guessing,

but I see a big tab that says Security.

And I'm looking for a Trusted Platform Module.

So I see an option here.

It says Trusted Computing, I'm guessing here,

and it says Security Device Support.

It's currently disabled.

So let me go ahead and turn this on.

Now, I get a lot of other stuff here.

I could ignore all that.

I've gone ahead and I've turned on TPM.

Let's go ahead and save and reboot Windows.

Well, that was easy,

but now that we've got the TPM module turned on,

let's go ahead and boot into Windows

and let's fire up BitLocker.

Okay, so I've started up BitLocker,

it's in the Control Panel,

so I've just went and fired it up.

Now, what I'm about to try to do

will fail if your TPM module is turned off

or if you don't have a TPM module.

So I'm gonna go ahead and turn on BitLocker.

It made sure that I had a TPM module.

If I didn't have one, I wouldn't have got to the screen.

So what happens if the motherboard dies?

What if my TPM module goes to smoke?

Well, I can get a recovery key

where I can plug the drive in to another system,

and using this key,

I can go ahead and log in and get my data back.

So I'm gonna go ahead and save it to a file.

Now, I can't put it on the same drive that I'm encrypting,

but I've got my thumb drive plugged in

so I'm gonna go ahead and save it to that.

Now, it's saying,

"Do you want me to encrypt

only where there are files stored,

or do you want me to encrypt the entire drive?"

I'm gonna go ahead and encrypt the entire drive.

Now what it's trying to say is,

do I want to do a new encryption mode

because BitLocker has improved over the years?

Or do I wanna keep a compatible mode

that would work with older drives?

So if, for some reason, I had BitLocker

on systems from earlier versions of Windows,

I could go ahead and use compatible mode.

This is my only one.

So I'll hit Next,

and I'm just gonna go ahead and start encrypting.

Now, it also wants me to run a system check

so it can verify that the recovery

and encryption keys work.

I know they'll work.

So I'm just gonna ahead and start the encryption process.

So the encryption is gonna take a while.

I can close that.

The encryption is still going on,

so there's no problem there.

The other thing I wanna show you is this right here,

BitLocker To Go.

BitLocker To Go is designed for removable media.

And what's nice about BitLocker To Go

is you don't need a TPM module.

So I can turn on BitLocker here,

and this will run even if I don't have TPM.

Now, because I don't have TPM,

I'm gonna have to use some kind of password or something.

So I'm gonna type in a really complicated password here.

Cool, and again, it wants to save it someplace.

And in this particular case,

I'm gonna go ahead and just print it out,

and just put it to my OneNote account.

And I've gone ahead and encrypted both my C Drive

and my thumb drive as well.

Whoo, we've got everything encrypted.

I feel all cloak and dagger and safe

now that I've got everything encrypted.

With file-based tools like Encrypting File System,

we can encrypt individual files and folders.

With disk-based tools like BitLocker,

we can encrypt our entire drive.

And with BitLocker To Go, even our thumb drives are safe.