-: One of the things that always cracks me up

about the CompTIA exams is that, invariably,

they'll have some objectives saying,

here are all the problems that you could ever run into

with mass storage, these types of symptoms.

What do you do about it?

Well, I the great Mike Strammy,

I'm going to take on CompTIA head to head

and I'm going to answer their questions.

Now, before we do that, let give you two rules

when it comes to problems with mass storage.

Number one, back it up, back stuff up.

Even if that means just throwing in a thumb drive

and copying those precious photos or those documents,

or whatever it is,

make a backup of whatever you're working on

because you might only have one shot at this

and then it's going to be too late or very, very expensive.

So make a backup.

Number two, mental reinstall.

Anytime you're having a problem with a device,

in particular,

if it's a new device that you've just plugged in

and it's not doing what you wanna do,

go through the mental process of reinstalling it

just from the ground up

and you'll probably remember that one step

that you'd forgotten.

Also, when you're doing that mental reinstall,

do what I call the triple check.

Oh, I've already checked that.

Well, check it again.

Well, I've already checked it.

Well check it a third time because, invariably,

most problems coming with mass storage

are not from them breaking but from us as technicians

forgetting a simple step.

Okay, so you've got a backup,

you've done a metal reinstall,

let's hit those problems.

You ready?

Bring them on, CompTIA.

Ah, okay, so RAID not found or RAID stops working.

These are issues that come into play with RAID arrays.

Number one, a RAID that is not found,

I'm going to assume that it's never been installed before.

The big issues to look out for there,

is your RAID controller active?

Do you have the right drivers for that particular system?

If there is some type of system set up

to get into the RAID array through hardware,

can you get there

and make sure everybody's happy in that particular case?

Also, don't forget that hard drives and a RAID array

are just like any other hard drives.

Make sure they're connected properly

and make sure they got power.

Now, if a RAID stops working, that means it was working,

and now it's not.

RAID arrays, again, they're just hard drives,

so always look at them as you would look at a hard drive.

Does the hard drive have power?

Is the hard drive plugged in?

Has somebody erased something you weren't anticipating?

Always go through the mental reinstall,

especially with RAID arrays,

and you'll get to the answers pretty quick.

So the rest of these problems that they're talking about,

I'm gonna call them single drive.

I've got a single drive in my system.

We're not doing RAID or anything wacky.

So let's start from the top.

What do we got first here?

Read/write failures.

Read/write failures are a big problem with hard drives.

All hard drives have a certain lifespan to them,

and at the end of that lifespan,

they start to manifest certain problems

and read/write failures are a big one.

Now, one of the things we can do is we can take advantage

of a technology called S.M.A.R.T.

It's not SMART, it's S.M.A.R.T.

S.M.A.R.T. technology is built into all hard drives

and with the right tools,

we can actually query a drive

and get a relative idea as to its health.

S.M.A.R.T. isn't perfect,

but it is the only real tool we have

if a drive is starting to act up,

well, you can run a S.M.A.R.T. detector,

but the bottom line is you're gonna do the same thing

no matter what.

You're gonna replace the drive.

And did I mention backup?

Yes, I did.

Okay, next.

Ah, slow performance.

Now, if I have slow performance on a system,

one of the last places I'm gonna be blaming any trouble

is the actual drive itself.

In my best experience,

if I'm getting slow performance

and I can zero in on mass storage as an issue,

the biggest problem more than anything else

is I don't have any RAM in this system

or not enough to be able to make the system

run as fast as it should,

and I'm going into virtual memory

and I'm getting what's known as a disc thrash.

The big clue here is that little red read/write light

for your hard disc drive is going absolutely bananas.

The answer there,

there's nothing wrong with the mass storage.

You just need to get yourself some more RAM.

What else?

Ooh, a loud clicking noise or the great click of death.

There have been over the decades

I've been working on computers,

some form of mass storage device

or another that physically starts to break.

The click of death is terminal.

There is absolutely no way to get around them.

If you're lucky, you can get a backup,

but again, the answer is replace the hard drive.

Failure to boot.

Okay, well first of all, most failure to boots

is because the system has a,

somebody put a thumb drive in

or something and you've messed up your boot order.

So the first thing I'm gonna be looking at

is the boot order correct?

If you're actually booting to a device

and the boot order is incorrect,

I want you to check an episode

where we talk about the Windows Recovery Environment, WinRE,

to take a look at the tools

that are built into your operating system

to help you recover from boot failures.

Drive not recognized.

Most of the time when you see a drive not recognized error

it's because the drive itself has a formatting problem,

something like that.

Assuming there's no data issues

that you don't have something precious on there,

go ahead and just try to reformat the drive.

A drive that's been working well with data on it,

you're rarely gonna get a drive not recognized error.

The only time that might happen

is if you're yanking a hard drive from one Windows system

and you plug it into another one,

remember, you need to initialize the disc

before Windows will recognize it.

Okay, and OS not found.

All right.

Anytime an operating system's not found,

99.99% of the time you've messed up your boot process.

I work with national level competitions

and one of my favorite competitions I ever created

is I had these wonderful systems

and all I did is I put a thumb drive in the back

and all of these super duper technicians,

at least half of them, I totally stumped

because they didn't look in the back

and see that I put a thumb drive in there

and messed up the boot order.

Worst comes to worst,

you can always go into your system setup

and double check.

Okay, attempts to boot to incorrect device.

Well, that one's really easy.

That is definitely the boot order.

Have you noticed that there's a lot of boot order problems?

It's because there are,

I can't tell you how much money I have personally made

from people screwing up boot orders.

Now continuous reboots rarely manifests

as in my impression from something from mass storage.

The one place where that might happen

is that you're gonna get some type of corruption,

particularly in the operating system

where it simply can't boot properly.

The answer for that

is we're really gonna have to refer to my episode

when we talk about troubleshooting operating systems.

I got about 50 answers to that particular one.

The other issue to watch out for

when you're talking about mass storage devices

is you've got to remember

is that everything runs on a controller.

I can't tell you how many times I have run into systems

where somebody turned off a SATA controller

or turned off a RAID controller or turned off USB

and they're trying to read off of a thumb drive

simply because somebody turned it off.

It's a popular security issue

and it's an easy one for you to fall into.

So the great Mike Strammy has spoken.

Be sure when you're actually going through the exam,

you're gonna be seeing

a lot of troubleshooting scenarios like these.

Keep in mind that CompTIA is notorious

for writing really big questions

where really the question itself

is a single little sentence in this huge paragraph.

Take your time and you're gonna find troubleshooting simple

and easy on the exam and in the real world.