-: USB, USB, USB, or Universal Serial Bus

is the defacto standard by which we plug stuff

into our computers.

I don't care if it's a camera

or if it's a mouse or a keyboard,

odds are good, if you have any of these devices,

you're probably gonna be using USB.

USB has some amazing benefits to it.

We can usually take a USB device,

plug it into our system,

and it just works most of the time,

and it really makes our lives very convenient.

Now, in this episode, what I wanna do

is talk about the different USB standards

that are out there.

USB's been around for quite a while

and a number of different standards have come along,

and it's important for you and for the exam

that you're comfortable with those standards.

So let's start off by going through

all the different USB standards.

USB 1.1 came out in two different speeds.

It would either run at 1.5 megabits per second

or 12 megabits per second.

Now, in today's world, that seems so incredibly slow,

but back then, that was pretty quick.

And then on top of that, even in today's world,

there's still plenty of devices that run at these speeds.

Think about a keyboard or a mouse,

I don't care how fast you type,

you're never gonna be able to go faster

than 12 megabits per second, I promise.

Now, these standards lasted for quite a while

but they were eventually superseded with USB 2.0.

USB 2.0 runs at 480 megabits per second.

So it was a big speed leap,

and it really helped to bring in things

like USB thumb drives and such

where they were actually fast enough

where you could pull files off of them.

Now these ran for quite a while

until we came into USB 3.0.

The USB 3.0 standard ran

at a blistering 5 gigabits per second.

But USB 3.0 had a lot of compatibility issues,

and in fact, I still have a beautiful motherboard I own

that is USB 3.0 that simply can't boot Windows,

it was just issues with hardware.

So they quickly updated the standard

and came up with USB 3.1,

which is what we use on most systems today.

USB 3.1 comes in two different speeds.

Generation 1 was basically just the fix for USB 3.0

and it ran at 5 gigabits per second.

And then USB 3.1 Generation 2

runs at our current top speed of 10 gigabits per second.

Now, I cannot stress enough

how important these speeds are for the exam.

So what I wanna do is let me just put up a little chart here

and what I need you to do is memorize this chart.

Go ahead and pause it,

do whatever you need to do,

but memorize this chart, okay?

Here you go.

So you got all those speeds memorized?

Fantastic, 'cause you're gonna see it on the exam.

Now obviously, USB is a type of connectivity.

So, we have a lot of different type of physical connectors.

So what I wanna do right now

is go through the most common types of USB-Connectors.

Now, when we talk about USB-Connectors,

you'll hear the term USB-A connector

and USB-B connector.

Now at this point in time,

I'm gonna save a big discussion of what A and B means

'cause it's really kind of cool

if you understand how it works.

But for right now,

all I want you to do is take a look

at these different types of connectors

and make sure you could recognize 'em

if for example, you were to take a certification exam

and somebody showed you a picture,

you would say things like,

"Oh, that's a USB Mini-B connector,"

got the idea?

So let's march through all these different connectors

I have right here.

So we're gonna start off right here.

This is the famous original USB-A connector.

This connector is the first type of connector

we saw with USB,

and this is what we call the A connector,

they're still incredibly popular today.

Along with this type of connector

was this guy right here.

This is a USB-B connector.

USB-B connectors,

I'll give away a little bit from other episodes,

this is where we plug into the computer,

and this is where we plug into different type of devices

like scanners or something like that.

So, these two types of connectors

were very popular for a long time,

but one of the problems we ran into with USB

is that smaller and smaller devices

wanted to take advantage of it,

and these large connectors

were not exactly perfect for a lot of situations,

cameras, smart devices, things like that.

So we began to start seeing connectors like these.

So right here,

that is a USB Mini-B connector.

We'd see this a lot of times people will plug

into their cameras or video recorder, stuff like that,

we'd see these types of connectors.

I have a scanner I use at home every day

that has a connector just like that.

Next is right here.

This is a USB Micro-B connector.

Micro-B connectors are incredibly popular.

If you own an Android device,

odds are good you are not only familiar

with this type of connector,

but you have lots and lots of these cables

in your car and in your house and all that kind of stuff.

So, the Mini and the Micro-Bs are very, very popular.

This one right here next to it on the orange,

this is a USB 3 Micro connector.

So the problem we have with USB 3

is that it's so much faster than the other types of USB

that it had to have its own proprietary type connector.

What's actually interesting if you look very carefully,

you'll see this larger part of the USB 3 Micro connector

is exactly compatible with this.

So I could actually, if I had a USB 3 Micro port

to plug it in, I could take that regular USB Micro connector

and plug right into it, it's backward compatibility.

Now, all these connectors were great,

we've used them for years and years,

but it wasn't that long ago

people were starting to get frustrated,

particularly with that old school USB-A connector,

'cause you always try to put it in backwards,

and you all know what I'm talking about,

'cause everybody watching this has done that

where you can't plug it in, you gotta look at it,

and then you finally plug it in right.

That changed a couple years ago with the advent of USB-C,

and that's this guy right here.

The big benefit of USB-C is not only is it capable

of handling extremely high speed data throughput,

but more importantly, it no longer can only go in one way.

You can plug it in either way

and it works perfectly well.

The challenge we run into with USB

is that we have all these different speeds.

So, if you were to take your USB thumb drive

and plug it into a USB 1.1 port,

it would work, but it would run incredibly slow.

So, we want people to have some methodology

to look at the different types of ports

on the back of their computers or in the front,

whatever it might be,

and to be able to recognize

that one port might be USB 1.1 compatible,

another port might be USB 3.1 Gen 2 compatible.

And what the industry has tried to do,

and by the way this is not universal,

it's not a law of physics,

but they try pretty hard,

is they put different colors on the different ports.

So let's go through all of these different colors.

So first, if you ever see a USB port

or a connector with a little bit of a white tab in here,

in this particular example, I'm using USB-A,

that is probably going to be

a USB 1.1 compatible port or connector.

If you see one that's black like this one right here,

that's gonna be USB 2.0 compatible.

Now if you see a blue one,

now notice this is a nice kind of a neutral blue here,

that's either gonna be USB 3.0 or USB 3.1,

probably USB 3.1 Gen 1.

If you see a pretty teal connector like this,

you can pretty much be guaranteed

that that's gonna be USB 3.1.

And last, if you see a connector that's going to be red

or in this case I'm showing red,

but it could be orange or even yellow,

those are kind of unique.

Those are what we call charging ports.

A lot of people wanna plug into a USB

simply because they wanna charge their smartphone

or something like that.

And what we've developed over the years

is that for a lot of systems,

if like for example, if I have a desktop,

if I turn the desktop off,

it's not charging anything.

So, these specialized ports basically mean

if the system is plugged in, it's working.

There are exceptions to this,

so you can't treat it as a law of physics.

But if you see these types of colors,

what we're talking about is a charging port.

Now, in this example that I just showed you here,

we're talking about USB-A connectors.

That's usually where you're gonna be seeing this stuff,

particularly if you're looking on the back of a system.

But do keep in mind

is that even on other types of connectors

like a Micro USB 3.0 B connector,

you'll often see these colors as well.

Now, the important thing to remember with USB

is that it has good backward compatibility.

If you have a USB 3.1 thumb drive

and you plug it into a USB 2.0 port,

it will work, but it's only gonna run

at the speed of that port.

So that's where the colors really become handy

because it allows you to look at whatever your device is

and plug it into the right speed for your kind of device.

Okay, so for the exam, number one,

please make sure you memorize

all of the different speeds for USB

and the different versions for those speeds.

Also, make sure that you can recognize the ports

that we've shown you in this episode.

And then third, be comfortable

with the different types of colors,

maybe not so much because you're gonna see it on the exam,

but more importantly, in the real world,

it's critical that we make sure that we plug

the right speed of device into the right speed USB port.