-: For most of us, our experience with USB

is simply grabbing some kind of USB device,

plugging it into something and it just works.

That's fantastic.

But in this episode, I wanna drill down a little bit

so we can really understand how USB works.

So to get started.

Let's consider for a moment this USB mouse,

very simple mouse, nothing fancy here.

It's got a USB-A connector on the end.

But when I plug this in, I'm plugging it into, for example,

a system that has a motherboard with a built-in, you ready?

USB controller.

What's taking place is built into my motherboard,

is almost like a little network

from which we connect all these different USB devices,

and built into the motherboard itself is this controller

that simply makes all this other stuff work.

So when we're talking about USB, we get into this concept

of what I call upstream and downstream.

Let me show you.

So this is the back of some system here.

I'm kind of drawing it like a desktop

but it could be a laptop port for all I care.

And we plug into the back of this,

and this is some USB device.

I'm just drawing a box here,

but it could be a mouse, or a keyboard, or a external drive,

I don't care, it's just some USB device.

When this USB device plugs into the back of my system,

he becomes subservient to the controller built in here.

So what we're talking about is we have a bunch

of commands that are going downstream.

It can be two-way communication, that's fine.

But the actual controller built

into my motherboard is controlling

and sending commands downstream.

To make sure that we connect properly,

in the USB world,

we have two very different types of connectors.

We have A connectors and B connectors.

The A connectors are the ones you see

that we always plug in, those old square looking connectors.

But we have a whole different set of connectors

which we call the upstream connectors

because whoever's plugging in here

is taking commands from upstream.

So upstream is a B connector

and a downstream connector is an A connector.

Every time you connect any device via USB,

you have a USB upstream connector

and A USB downstream connector.

Now in most cases, I got a lot of stuff around here.

Now in most cases, like this mouse,

here, we have an A connector, good old, A connector

nothing special there, but if you look on the other end,

it's just soldered, there is no connector.

That really is a B connector electrically,

but it's soldered in,

so there's nothing to plug or unplug.

But with external devices, if you want to unplug a cable,

you have to use a special connector called a B connector.

And I've got one right here.

Now, just for fun, if you can name this device,

my email is in this series.

Send me an email saying I know what that is, Mike, okay?

Anyway, so on the back of this very ancient,

but good example device, I have this type of connector.

This is a classic, first-generation USB-B connector.

So this is the little plug that goes in,

and I plugged that in,

and I have made a proper upstream connection.

Now if you look at the other end of this cable,

you'll see it's got an A.

So the A is the downstream,

and I'll plug that into the back of my computer.

So the whole idea behind A and B isn't just limited

to those big USB connectors.

If you take a look here, I've got a USB mini connector

and a USB micro connector.

These also come in USB micro-A

and USB micro-B,

USB mini-A and USB mini-B.

However, nobody uses the A versions of these two.

So if you see a USB micro, that is a micro-B.

If you see a USB mini like this one,

this is a USB mini-B.

These are designed only to do one thing,

to be plugged in devices.

You're not gonna plug these things into the back

of a computer.

By using A and B connectors like that,

there's never any confusion

about who's in charge of controlling whom.

So we always try to work hard when using our devices,

either have them soldered or have them use a B connector.

Now just like all the A connectors,

the B connectors have improved over the years as well,

and I've got some examples here.

So for USB 1.1 and USB 2.0,

they all look like this particular guy.

When USB 3.0 came along, they came up with a new type

of B connector, and this particular one is plugged

into a SATA external drive.

So that's a USB 3.0 B connector.

These were great connectors, but they were a little fragile,

and people liked the big square-type USB connectors.

So during USB 3.0,

although these are often called USB 3.1 connectors,

we began to see B connectors that look like this.

So with classic USB, we always have an A

and a B connector.

People didn't like this,

and you started to see people cheat all the time.

Let me show you one example of a cheat.

If you look on the back of this scanner, for example,

that is a regular old micro USB,

that's, technically, not a B connector.

The reason is, is the people who wanted to do this,

they wanted a smaller connector

because it was such a slim scanner.

So they actually kind of broke the rules a little bit.

And as long as you use the cable that came

with that scanner, never had a problem.

So there are some exceptions that aren't good.

To get around all this,

remember that USB-C connector we were talking about?

With a USB-C connector, the whole concept of A and B,

of upstream and downstream is kind of gone.

Not only can a USB-C connector go either direction

you can either plug it in either way, and by negotiating

with the devices, they'll determine who's upstream

and who's downstream,

and you don't have to worry about A and B anymore

if you're using USB-C connectors.

Okay, now all this upstream and downstream is cool,

but it doesn't really show us the complete power of USB.

To understand that, let's go and take a look

at what's happening inside your motherboard.

So if we were to zero in on a particular chip,

it's often the south bridge on most motherboards,

built into this are separate, what we call, USB controllers.

These controllers are designed

to support certain versions of USB.

Now in this one example,

I've got three different versions of USB on here.

These controllers are plugged in to what we call root hubs.

In this particular example,

all of my different USB controllers are plugged

into a single root hub.

From that hub. all the USB connectors on our motherboard

are then exposed so people can plug into them.

Now what's interesting here is if we were

to see a motherboard set up like this,

in all probability, all of these different connections

would probably all be blue.

The reason being is that no matter where you plug in,

you can always connect to the 3.1 controller.

Another example you'll see,

and this one's a little bit more common,

is you're gonna have multiple controllers.

In this example, I'm using a 1.1 and a 3.1 controller,

and they're plugged into their own separate root hubs.

On a motherboard like this,

all the connectors that are coming off of this root hub

are gonna have the little black plastic on

because they're only 1.1.

Whereas, all of the ones coming off of this root hub

are all going to be blue

because they're connected to the 3.1.

That's all well and good, but in this particular example,

the most devices we could plug into our system

would be 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.

But USB allows you to plug in up to 127 devices,

and you do that via what we call USB hubs.

Now, this isn't a root hub,

this is actually a device you plug in.

So I could plug a hub into one of my USB ports,

and then this hub will have its own USB ports

hanging off of it.

And by doing this we can have up to 127 devices.

So I've got some examples

of USB hubs right here in front of me.

So the idea behind a USB hub

is we're gonna have one upstream connector that connects

to my system.

On this guy, it's soldered in,

that's the upstream connector.

And then I can plug all the devices I want

up to all the different ports from this hub.

The only downside to these hubs

is that USB supplies power,

and if you plug in too many devices,

that one connection may not provide enough power.

So what we have, and this is pretty common

with all of these different kind of hubs,

is we have powered hubs, and it's hard to see on these guys,

but you'll see there's two little AC connectors

on these guys.

One's right here and the other one's right here.

And that's for AC power.

I just plug in an AC adapter in there,

and that way that one poor USB connected

on the back of my system isn't trying to provide power

to all my different devices.

So all this looks really cool,

but if you wanna see it in action,

we're gonna have to fire up an operating system.

Again, 'cause I'm a Windows guy,

we're gonna do this in Windows.

And I've got a copy of device manager right here.

So once I've got device manager fired up,

what I'm gonna be looking for is the USB controllers,

and it's right here.

So as I open this up,

you're gonna see a little bit more in here

than what I wanna show you,

but we've got two host controllers.

One of them is built into the motherboard.

This one is called ASMedia.

I don't necessarily know where that is.

It's probably also on the motherboard.

And then we can actually see the root hubs themselves.

There's probably a couple other root hubs in here

that aren't being shown, mainly because USB devices

have different ways to report,

and it doesn't always show up in device manager

by the brand name and model that we'd like.

Those composite devices are probably also root hubs

for different speeds of USB.

The beautiful part about USB,

especially if you're using the most recent versions

of whatever operating system you choose,

is that it is highly automated.

All you gotta do, for the most part, is plug in and go.