-: Working with USB devices

is usually pretty straightforward.

The one thing you need to remember

is that if you've got some USB device,

like this is a little web camera,

in this particular case,

the USB pretty much works in any operating system.

The downside is whatever device

is connected to the end of the USB

is going to need a device driver.

Now, traditionally, working with Windows operating system,

and Linux also, the rule has always been:

first, install the device driver for the thing,

then plug it in, and then it'll work fine.

Now, in this particular example,

because I'm running Windows 10,

that's really less of an issue than it was before.

In today's, especially Windows 10 world,

I pretty much just plug things in.

Windows has tens of thousands, if not 100,000,

different device drivers

built into the operating system itself.

And on the rare occasion when it can't find a device driver,

it will go online automatically,

download it for you, and install it.

There are a few exceptions

and we're gonna do an exception in here.

So first of all, let's go with the rule.

I've got this nice little webcam.

I use this webcam all the time.

If you ever wanna talk to me and you're looking at me,

it's gonna be on this webcam.

Now, I'm gonna be plugging these in

to my system here underneath,

and I've got my buddy, cousin Thing here,

who's gonna help me and plug that in.

So, Thing, will you plug that in for me?

Thank you.

Thing's so handy.

So, what I'm gonna do here is Thing is gonna plug this in.

Now, I want you to watch Device Manager while he works.

Okay, did you see that flash?

That's telling me something's happened.

So we take a look,

and we can see that my camera is there and ready to go.

Again, this camera's a few years old,

but it still works beautifully.

If you run into a situation

where you don't have the right device driver,

usually it's just gonna show up with some type of error

and then we can go online.

So over here, I've got already set up,

I went online, and I'm gonna go ahead and download...

Oh wait a minute, "For Windows 8 and later,

additional software is not required."

So that's pretty common today

because both with Windows 8 and 10,

they automatically grab stuff,

plus they have a huge cache of drivers,

and I'm up and cooking, it's just that easy.

Okay.

Now, let's make it a little bit harder.

There are situations where you might come up

with some kind of device

that Windows simply doesn't know about.

And what I have here is actually a fascinating little tool.

This is a microscope, believe it or not.

And to make this microscope go, it needs device drivers,

and I'm pretty sure,

let's go ahead and plug this in.

Cousin Thing?

There you go, not that one.

Wait, here, give it back.

Down. Come here.

Okay, take it, take it, take it.

Hard to train.

So as Thing plugs this in,

let's go ahead and watch Device Manager again.

Okay, now we take a look at this,

and we could see we've got a device,

but do you see this little error?

Do you see the little emergency?

What it's telling you is I recognize this device,

but I don't have the device driver for it.

So in this case, luckily for me,

I've already downloaded onto a thumb drive

the device drivers I need.

So let's get...

You know what, Thing? I'll take care of this one.

I'll use one of my front connectors,

and give me a moment while I install this driver.

As we install this driver,

I want you to keep an eye on Device Manager,

and let's see if this installation goes the right way.

Now, while we're at this, what you're looking at here

is a built-in Windows security function,

where we have what are called signed drivers.

And this is why I'm having trouble installing it.

Most people who make stuff

have their device drivers signed by Microsoft.

Basically what they're saying

is that my USB device isn't spreading malware

or has problems like that,

and it gives people when they're installing hardware

a little bit of comfort.

This particular device doesn't have a signed driver

mainly because it's a little bit expensive to do that

and this little microscope company

didn't wanna spend the money,

but I trust them, so we'll hit Install.

Ah, there it is.

Okay, so we got it up and cooking,

but it is working and I'm a happy camper.

Now, there's a few other things you should concern yourself

when we're talking about installing devices

in Windows in particular.

One of the things that always is important

is that we always have a keyboard and a mouse working

no matter what.

And so many keyboard and mice these days are USB

that we have built into Windows,

what are known as human interface devices or HIDs.

So if you take a look,

I'm gonna go over to my keyboards and you'll see this HID.

What we're talking about there

is the HID device drivers are just like core device drivers

always to make sure that mice and keyboards work.

You plug in some big fancy keyboard

that's got all these extra function keys.

Those aren't gonna work,

but all the basic keys will work

and the Windows button will work.

You get some big crazy gaming mouse, not like this thing,

that's got 10,000 keys on it.

Well, the scroll wheel will work,

and your top two buttons will work, but nothing else will.

That's the beautiful part about HID.

They are base drivers that get the core stuff working.

Just because you plug in a mouse and it works,

if it has extra features,

you're gonna have to get a device driver

that supports the extra features of that HID device

to get full functionality.

Now, while we're in here, USB can be a real problem.

One of the challenges we run into with USB

is that it's a big security issue.

It's easy for people, bad guys,

to use things like key loggers

which will record every keystroke.

If you have people,

you don't want them copying your payroll data

where they can plug in a thumb drive and copy it.

What we'll see happen on a lot of systems

is that we have...

Well, there's two things.

Number one, you can turn off USB ports.

You can actually go into your system setup,

find your USB ports, and you can, depending on the system,

you can turn them off selectively by port

or you can just go in and turn them all off.

In law enforcement, that's actually quite common.

Along with that same concept is what we call a USB lock.

A USB lock is usually some kind of software

that's designed to watch over your USB ports.

And not only will it prevent people

from being able to use the USB port,

but it can also perform reporting.

It could also white list

so that certain USB thumb drives, for example, can work.

But a USB lock, especially if you're in an area of security,

is an absolute godsend

for those who don't want their information

being leaked out through their USB ports.