♪ Thunder ♪

(Mike mimics rock music)

♪ And lightning ♪

-: Okay, well, the lightning part didn't work.

But anyway,

I wanna talk about some other types of connections

that we see out there in the world today.

Thunderbolt and Lightning connections.

So first of all, I wanna start with Thunderbolt.

Thunderbolt is kind of a combination of the PCIe

and a DisplayPort all combined into one.

Pretty much, it will do anything you want kind of port.

It will drive monitors, you can charge with it,

you can do data transfer,

you can do anything you want with a Thunderbolt connection.

Now, Thunderbolts been around for a little bit,

and we have three different versions.

Version 1 runs in a two-channel kind of setup,

so it's a total throughput of 20 gigabit;

Version 2 runs at just 20 gigabits per second;

and Version 3 is 40 gigabits per second,

which is, like, unreal fast.

Anyway, what I wanna do, for starters,

is talk about some of the types of connections

that you'll run into.

So if we take a look right here,

what you're looking at is a Version 1 and 2.

They're both the same Thunderbolt connections.

So this is also used as many DisplayPorts.

So if you watch my Display episodes,

you're going to see this type of plug again.

So Thunderbolt doesn't really have its own type

of special connector.

It's gonna be using good old mini DisplayPort.

Now, Version 3 comes along with something totally different,

and that is, you bet, USB-C.

So you're, "Wait a minute, Mike, you're saying...

So is Thunderbolt Version 3 USB-C?"

No, they're two different standards.

USB-C is really more of a connector type.

However, for most anybody,

if you've got a Thunderbolt connection

and you plugged in a USB-C mouse,

it's gonna work just fine.

So there's a whole lot of compatibility between them.

So if you take a look over here,

you can actually see a Thunderbolt connection.

Now, that one's pretty cool,

but the one underneath, it's even more interesting.

Let me move this out of the way so we can really see it.

Don't know if you can catch it,

but if you look really, really closely,

you're gonna see what looks like a little lightning bolt.

That's telling you

that these are Thunderbolt connections up and ready to go.

So Thunderbolt, really, I mean,

people say, "What's Thunderbolt for?"

I'm just gonna say, "Yes."

You can use Thunderbolt just to charge something,

you could use Thunderbolt to drive up to six monitors.

I mean, it's incredible throughput.

So it's pretty cool stuff.

The alternative, not really an alternative,

but similar to Thunderbolt, is Lightning.

Now, first of all,

Lightning is absolutely exclusive to Apple products.

It's proprietary.

So if we take a look right here,

you'll see these are Lightning connectors.

Lightning is used for charging devices,

it's used for data transfer.

Pretty much, if you have an iOS device,

you're going to be really familiar

with these little Lightning connectors.

In the Mac world,

you can keep it separate by thinking about this.

If you're running macOS,

you're probably going to be using a Thunderbolt connector.

If you're running iOS,

you're gonna be using a Lightning connector.

Now, there are some kind of exceptions to that rule,

and those are right here.

If you take a look what I've got,

these are just some earbuds,

and they're gonna work just fine on my smartphone

or on my macOS device,

and I can go ahead and charge them.

That's really all I do in this case

is I charge them using a Lightning connector.

This is also true for wireless devices,

like for example, keyboards and mice.

I can charge this device using a Lightning connector.

Lightning is fantastic,

but it is proprietary to Apple products.

And what's actually kind of interesting

is we're seeing more and more Thunderbolts

starting to appear within the macOS world,

in particular as a USB-C.

So it's been kind of fun to watch USB-C,

which is showing up like, for example,

on my Google Pixel 3 XL phone with a USB-C,

and now all of a sudden I'm seeing Mac products

with that same USB-C.

And again, we have good interchangeability there.

All I need to do, if I plug in,

for example, my Google Pixel 3 Android device,

which has USB-C,

and I plugged it into my Mac running Thunderbolt on USB-C,

I wouldn't have any problems at all.

At the very least, they wouldn't work.

It wouldn't cause any damage.

But surprisingly, a lot of these devices will drop to USB-C

and just suddenly start talking to each other.

You know what?

To this old tech,

these outrageous speeds sound absolutely incredible.