-: The CompTIA exam goes through a number of different devices

that I collectively call readers and scanners.

So what I want to start off with

is this little guy right here.

So if you take a look at so many cards

that are in our lives, you'll notice that there's

a little chip here.

This chip stores credentials that help authenticate

this card to whatever they might be doing,

typing in passcodes or buying gas, whatever it might be.

We call these smart cards.

Smart cards are all over the place.

This is a credit card,

but you'll see them on people with their credentials.

They're very, very common.

So this is a smart-card reader.

Now, this is a USB device,

and I've just shoved it in and it will actually read

the card itself.

And no, I'm not going to show you the output

'cause that would include

my American Express account number,

and you don't get to see that.

Now, the nice thing about smart card readers is that

because they're used for authentication,

we often see them in some really interesting places.

For example, when you go buy something

and you go to a point of sale system,

and you put in your smart card, that's one place.

Another place you'll see them is on a lot of laptops.

In high security situations,

when someone wants to log into Windows,

not only do they have to know their password,

but they actually put a smart card

into the side of the laptop as an extra bit of security.

So smart cards are all over the place.

The next one I want to talk about is something called

a magnetic reader.

So magnetic readers, when you do the swipe,

that same point of sale system where you actually swipe it,

that's a magnetic reader.

Magnetic readers are very common out there.

In fact, anybody who's ever worked

with a little company called Square

with their little smart devices

where they can swipe a credit card right from

that type of device.

The next one I wanna talk about,

and for me this is a big one,

and this is flash memory readers.

So this little device you see is powered by USB.

Has all of these slots for different kinds of flash memory.

Also, if you take a look over on my laptop here,

you'll see that there's also a little flash memory reader.

I live on flash memory,

and there are a number of different formats.

I'm going to put four out in front of you.

We're going to start off with probably the most famous.

This is the famous SD card.

We use SD cards for,

I'm hard pressed to come up

with something we don't use SD cards for.

SD cards are very common.

Even the cameras that are recording this are using SD cards.

So on my little laptop here,

it's designed to read SD cards.

The next one is a mini SD

and the next one after that is micro SD.

In fact, I'm cheating a little bit to see

if we can get this.

This actually is really just a adapter.

There's no real difference between those three formats

other than their actual, physical size.

They just make smaller ones because, like, for example,

the micro SDs are really handy to put into things

like smartphones and tablets.

Now, when you're reading these different types of devices,

they're simply going to manifest as different types

of drives in a Windows environment.

You just plug it in and you can treat it

like any other hard drive.

Okay.

So that's it for readers.

Let's move on to one of my personal favorites, scanners.

So I've got right here a device that I think is

just as important as a keyboard on systems.

This is a typical flatbed scanner.

There's nothing fancy about it

except I don't remember which end to pick up.

There we go.

Oh, I need to send that into somebody.

Anyway, a flatbed scanner simply scans paper documents.

This scanner right here actually lives on one of my systems.

I'm always scanning old photographs

or a fax from a bazillion years ago.

I'm constantly scanning.

So a flatbed scanner like this is absolutely fantastic.

The only downside to a flatbed scanner like this is, well,

I've got to put it in one page at a time.

So you can get scanners that have automatic document feed.

I tell you what,

I've got one here in the office, let's go check it out.

So I'm standing here in the reception area of total seminars

next to Old Faithful, our combination scanner, printer,

probably a snow cone maker in there somewhere too.

And what we have on top of here

is an automated document feeder, an ADF.

So what I want to do is I want to scan a bunch

of these documents.

So I just lay them in, face up and hit the scan button

and it'll go ahead and start scanning.

Now, I'm sorry we had to come up here.

I wanted to take this thing back

to the back office and show you,

but if I did, well, what would happen?

-: I kill ya.

-: So we're going to do it right here.

So here we go.

With the ADF running happily away.

(phone ringing)

Flatbed scanners aren't the only type

of peripheral you might be seeing on your pc.

The other type of peripheral I want to talk

about are barcode/QR codes scanners.

Now, barcodes and QR codes are little printed black

and white symbols that store either numeric

or alpha-numeric information.

These are really handy for inventory and things like that.

And you've probably seen these things

on everything from boxes of toothpaste to your car.

So we need to have some type of device that can read them.

Now, technically there would,

you would need two different kinds of scanners

to read these two different types of devices,

but today we have gun type scanners like this

that can read both.

So what I want to do,

is I've got an example of a barcode up here,

let's go ahead and do some barcode scanning.

You ready?

So what we've done, is just by hitting this,

we get a particular numerical value.

These gun code scanners are great, but for a lot of us,

the best barcode/QR code scanner out there

is the one that comes with your smartphone.

All smartphones,

I don't care if it's Mac or if it's Android,

all have apps that'll allow you to read these.

So what I've got is a QR code up here.

Let's do it again except this time I'm going

to use my smartphone.

Hey, it's Wikipedia.

So barcodes and QR codes are everywhere these days.

I've even found these in system setups.

If you need help on a particular screen,

you just go up to a QR code

and it puts you to a website

so you can fix issues even within your BIOS.