-: So even though we live in a world of, you know,

really built to exact specification PCs,

you will eventually need to install

and possibly troubleshoot expansion cards.

So, let's take a look at the modern expansion card format

and then get hands-on with one of our most common issues.

First of all, I want to introduce you to something

that's a little near and dear to my heart

because I remember when I got my first PCI sound card,

and it was absolutely awesome

not having to deal with any jumpers or switches on it,

and you're an old tech, you'll understand that,

but this is a really, really old device,

but it actually uses the predecessor

to what we're going to talk about, so it's important here.

This actually is what's called

a peripheral component interconnect, or PCI.

And it was actually the first

plug and play type of add-on expansion.

It's actually really neat.

Now you'll notice our PCI normal ports here,

or PCI, excuse me, slots, here differ from our PCI express,

so they're not backwards compatible.

These are what's known as PCI Express

or Peripheral Component Interconnect express.

That's a mouthful.

Now these are the actual updated standard for normal PCI

and they allow for really high bandwidth communication

between the device that's plugged into that slot

and the rest of the stuff on the motherboard.

So if you're a gamer, you probably already know

that this is a really cool GPU, right?

And, but there are other things that we can use

in our PCI slots, such as sound cards

or network interface cards, or even RAID cards.

Now, if you take a look

at the actual physical factor of these,

you'll notice that some of our PCI express slots

are a little smaller than the others.

That's because we have

what's known as different primary formats,

or lanes for the PCI express.

And we actually refer to those as x1, x4, x8, and x16.

And very similar to the lanes on a highway,

the, you know, more lanes you have, right,

the more traffic you can get through.

So, just naturally goes by cause that an x1 PCI express

will perform subpar to an x16.

Now on this particular motherboard,

we only really have x1s and a couple x16s here.

So we're going to actually be installing our GPU

in our primary PCI x16 express lane, so cool.

Alright, so we're going to take this up, but before we do,

I want you to take notice of this little lever right here.

If you notice it has an unclipping

and a clipping action here.

This is how we actually remove the GPU,

you know, if we ever need to troubleshoot it,

or if we need to remove it for any other reason.

So let's go ahead and slide our GPU

down into our PCI express slot.

Oh, it fits beautifully.

That click was there.

I know it's got a good connection

and I can't wait to test it out.

Let's go ahead and plug it in

and I'm going to make sure we got power to our system.

Ah, that looks so cool.

Let's go ahead and power it up.

I've got lights.

That's cool.

No signal.

Hmm.

Well, let's apply the CompTIA troubleshooting theory steps

but let's go through it

how you kind of would out in the field.

If you need to practice with those,

see some of the earlier videos

we go over them really in depth.

Well, I know that this GPU only has

pretty much two primary things that it needs to function.

A, it needs to plug into the motherboard

in A PCI express slot, and B, it needs power.

Well, I don't know if you can see right here

but I forgot to plug in the power lane.

So let's go ahead and unplug our G, or excuse me

unplug our PSU here.

And I'm going to make sure I have the right leads

in my modular power supply

and I'm going to go ahead and plug these in

so that our GPU actually has power.

And there we go.

Okay, great.

So we've got our card installed.

We'd make sure we re-seeded it,

just in case that was an issue,

and I've definitely confirmed that both Power leads

that it needs are in there.

Let's go ahead and test this out.

I'm going to reapply my power cord to my PSU.

I'm going to turn my PSU on.

Ah, I actually see lights coming on

in the back of the GPU now,

and I'm going to turn my system on

and let's see if we get an output.

Great.

I actually got video signal, so we're all set there.

Perfect.

One other consideration you may want to remember

is that sometimes you'll have onboard video

either built into the motherboard

or possibly you have an APU, right,

a CPU with that graphics card capability built into it.

You may need to, if you plug in a brand new graphics card

and don't have signal, you may need to go in there

and disable onboard video in your BIOS

before you're able to take full advantage

of a killer PCI express expansion card

like this graphics card.