Instructor: So this my friends, what I have in front of me is an actual LCD monitor. I just took off the case because in this episode I wanna talk about some of the parts that are really, really important to us techs on the inside of LCD monitors. So let me go ahead and let's start with probably the most important part there is right here, and this is this big guy right here. This is the actual LCD screen itself. Now if we take a look, let me zoom in on this, there are millions of tiny little wires coming into this LCD screen, with a few controller functions right here. So this incredibly fragile piece contains gazillions, over a million of these little picture elements in here. Now, because there's no power, theoretically you can't see through an LCD when there's no power. However, no LCD is perfect, so you can probably see me a little bit, I can see the camera a little bit. Alright, so this is the working part of any monitor. So lemme just set this off to the side for a moment because there's more. So let's look down here at this very bright, very white piece right here. What you're actually looking at it, they're a little bit taped down, so it's tricky to see, but underneath here, and also way down at the bottom, are these big, long fluorescent tubes, they're CCFLs. All of this white is basically a reflector, because we want the light to be as even as possible across the monitor so you don't have dark and bright spots on the monitor itself. So those are where the CCFLs live. Now what's interesting, if I can do this without losing a finger, is underneath here, actually, you know, let's the flip hole thing over first. Here's the power connection, this is where the monitor gets its electricity, and over here are inputs that are gonna come from video cards from my system itself. Okay, now let's go back in this guy a little bit. So first of all, here's the power over here. So what you have in here is a standard AC to DC power supply, just like you'd see at a desktop system, although much, much smaller. This is designed to give us the DC power that our circuitry needs to run. However, there's a problem, and the problem is, especially, with the old school CCFLs, these CCFLs are fluorescent lights, and fluorescent lights need AC power. So what you would do is you would take your DC power, and then have to convert it back into AC through what were known as inverters. Now with these LED panels we see today we don't see the inverters anymore. You're only going to have inverters if you have CCFLs. Okay, now, coming back over here, this is the actual inputs from our video card itself, and these are different types of technologies, of connectors, we cover those in other episodes. We have some logic circuitry here, and this guy right here is the primary connection to the LCD panel itself. So when you're working with an LCD panel, a couple of things I wanna make sure you understand. Number one, you're gonna have a panel, of course. Number two, you're gonna have a separate backlight unit. If you're using CCFLs, and there's plenty of monitors that still do, you are going to have inverters that take the DC power that was just converted from AC, yeah, it was, and turns it back into AC to run the CCFLs. On top of that, we're going to have our connectors, our inputs from our data connection, and of course, a big power connection as well.