-: I think the best way

that a computer technician can show off

to another computer technician

is by talking about how much resolution their monitors have.

It always seems that we're constantly looking for

higher and higher resolution monitors

that are made out of more and more pixels,

because more and more pixels

makes more clearly defined images.

So in this episode, I kinda wanna march through

a little bit of a history

of the different types of resolutions.

You're gonna be seeing these on the exam,

so let's talk about 'em for a moment.

Now, the first generations of graphics monitors

used what was called a four by three aspect ratio.

A four by three aspect ratio, basically mimics television.

And back in the old days, TVs were all shaped like this

and if we had a monitor,

by golly, we were gonna use that resolution.

So let's talk about the first generation monitors

and their four by three aspect ratio resolutions.

The granddaddy of all is VGA, which was 640 by 480.

This ancient and venerable resolution

was for many of us, our first exposure to graphics monitors

and it was a beautiful thing.

The next step is SVGA at 800 by 600.

This is an important resolution for you to remember

because most versions of Windows,

if they're having problems with their video card,

we'll downgrade themselves to this resolution

so that they can run.

After that is SXGA at 1280 by 1024,

which technically is a five by four aspect,

but we tend to lump it in this group.

And the last one is UXGA at 1600 by 1200.

Probably the highest resolution

four by three aspect ratio monitor there ever was.

Now, I should be careful and never say

that was the highest resolution there ever was

'cause one of you guys is gonna send me an e-mail going,

Well, Mike, you know there actually was another,

okay, okay okay, I don't get 'em all.

Anyway, the next aspect ratio I wanna talk about

is 16 by 10.

The 16 by 10 aspect ratio was very popular for quite a while

because it tied into what's known as the golden ratio.

The golden ratio is a very interesting mathematical formula,

but it has an aesthetic that a lot of people like.

You'll see a lot of paintings

that use the 16 by 10 aspect ratio,

and we saw a couple of monitors that also used it.

Let's take a look at those.

The first one is WSXGA.

This was 1440 by 900.

Saw a lot of laptops that used this resolution.

Next up from this is WUXGA at 1920 by 1200.

It was very, very popular until something happened.

What happened was high definition television.

Now I wanna show you a picture real quick.

This is a picture of an old time television set, okay?

You'll notice if you look kind of ballparky,

you'll see that it's a four by three aspect ratio.

Now have you ever watched a movie

and when you're watching the movie on TV,

you'll see these black bars on the side?

Those black bars are designed to adjust your monitor

to a four by three aspect ratio.

And that's what you're actually looking at

is old TV programs when you see those black bars.

Now HDTV came out with a lot of different resolutions.

The first one that came out was something called 720p.

720p stood for progressive scan.

Back in the old days, when you wanted to make a picture,

you scanned line 1, 3, 5, 7, 9

and then you would scan 2, 4, 6 8,

which was known as an interlace scanning.

This was the standard way we did TV for a long time.

However, HDTV got rid of that and kicked in 720p.

So whenever you see this, you'll see 720p.

Now what I wanna do is

first let's talk about 720p a minute.

Lemme show you a couple resolutions.

The first common resolution that we saw

at the 720p

wasn't really 720, it was 1366 by 768,

and it just had a few more pixels

than was needed by HDTV.

What makes this interesting is the next resolution up,

which is 2560 by 1440.

This is called QHD or WQHD.

What's interesting here is you'll see that's doubled.

That's kind of important.

Right now, that WQHD is probably

one of the most popular resolutions

for people who are big time gamers.

So not too many people mess with 720p,

but the next step up is actually quite popular.

Okay, 720p was not the only real resolution.

The big one that everybody fell in love with was 1080p.

1080p's been around for a while and everybody loves it

and that's what we talk about when we talk about HDTV.

Now, in the computing world, that only defines the height,

so we have to define the width as well.

So let's take a look at some of these resolutions.

First up is classic HDTV,

which is going to be 1920 by 1080.

Probably one of the most common monitor resolutions

out there today.

As popular as HDTV was and is,

we now live in a world where 4k

is starting to become pretty dominant.

There's only two resolutions on the exam.

Let's cover both of those.

The first one are what most people call a classic 4k

is going to be 3840 by 2160.

That's literally four HDTVs resolution on one screen.

And if that's not enough, especially if you're a Mac person,

we have 5k at 5120 by 2880.

So we've really just touched on a few resolutions.

There are probably 50 to a hundred

more different resolutions that are out there,

but luckily none of those are on the exam.

Stick to these, make sure you're comfortable with them.

Make sure you understand why they exist

and you'll do just fine

when it comes to taking the A plus.