-: Let's quit talking about all this monitor stuff

and let's start installing some things.

So what I'm gonna do in this episode is,

I'm gonna install this beautiful high-end graphics card

into this system.

Now there's a couple of things I want to talk about.

So first of all, let's take a look

at the business end of this card itself.

Now you notice I've got a lot

of different connectors on here.

There is a lot of these cards

where they will only use one connector by default.

So you wanna always try to use that one first.

And every card's different.

You wanna do a little research

on that or read the manual.

So what I'm gonna do is snap in the card.

So notice as long as I'm holding the outside

of the card and staying away from metal parts,

I don't have to worry about anti-static.

I never use anti-static when I'm snapping in a card.

So let's take a look inside here before we start snapping.

Now you're gonna see,

I've got three 16-lane PCI connectors in here.

So they're actually numbered.

It's PCIe 1, PCIe 2, and PCIe 3.

That will be important in a moment.

So what I'm gonna do, let's go ahead

and drop in this card.

You can see I've already popped off a couple of spacers.

Especially these higher end cards are so big

and ungainly, you really gotta take your time

in terms of dropping them in.

Okay, perfect, they're so big,

I have to actually look underneath

and make sure I'm hitting the PCI slot.

So now the other thing you gotta really be careful

about is that you really get tempted

with these cards not to put in both screws,

especially if you're gonna put it on its side.

Do not make that mistake.

Woo, what a behemoth!

Now the other thing we need to deal with

with these cards is take a look

right over here on the end,

and you're gonna see we've got PCIe power here.

Now this is a big card,

and it actually needs dual eight-pin PCIe power.

A lot of these PCIes will break out like that for six.

Those are fairly rare anymore,

so I'm gonna have to plug these guys in.

Woo, (laughs) all right.

So this part's pretty much ready to go.

All I'm gonna need to do

at this point is go ahead and plug him in.

So what I'm gonna do now is I'm gonna plug this guy in,

and I'm gonna fire him up,

and meet me over at CMOS,

I got something I wanna show you over there.

Here is one setting I wanna make sure that you're aware of.

You can actually pick what video card you want to boot from.

Now this particular system has an onboard graphics card.

So right now it's set

to the first PCIe card, which is where I'm plugged in.

But if I hit the options,

you'll see I've got some more options here.

So the IGFX, that stands for the internal graphics card.

So if I wanted to boot

from there primarily I could use that.

Or if I had multiple graphics cards,

I could pick any of these other PCIe slots

numbered one through three.

There's a lot of reasons why you might have more

than one graphics card on a system today.

Multiple monitors is one example,

but a lot of people will use these for data mining,

if you're into Bitcoin or something like that.

So that's why if you take a look on this particular case,

you'll notice I've got two slots

that are going sideways like that.

What those are for is for a riser.

So this is a riser I've got in my hand right here.

Lemme take a look,

I want you guys to take a look at this.

So you'll notice I got a PCIe 16 lane

on one side and a PCIe 1 lane on the other.

Now the system's already running

so I don't wanna plug this in,

but I can take this guy and drop it in sideways like this,

and now I can put in yet another graphics card.

So might be a little too big for my current setup,

but I can put multiple cards in there,

and that's why riser cards are used more

than anything else today.

Generically a riser card is anything that plugs

into your main expansion bus and gives you an extra slot.

Okay, so my system's up and cooking, pretty happy.

I went ahead and checked my CMOS, everybody's happy there.

So I'm gonna go ahead and do my initial boot.

Now once we've booted up,

today's world's really pretty easy

when it comes to graphics cards,

so I can tell just by looking how pretty the monitor is,

it's probably in good shape.

But let's go ahead and check

in Device Manager, and I take a quick peek,

I don't have any exclamation points or anything here,

so I know I'm in good order.

Now you need to make sure

that you have a graphics card

that will match the native resolution of your monitor.

All monitors have a fixed resolution.

This particular monitor I have is a 4K monitor.

So I know that this graphics card can push it that hard.

So I'm in good shape.

The only other thing I want to check right now

is make sure I'm running

in my native resolution.

Right there I see 3840 x 2160.

That's my native resolution and I'm in good shape.

Now one other thing while I'm in here is

that especially with these big 4K monitors,

if you leave the text at its default size,

wow, (laughs) that's really small.

Okay, let's make it a little bit bigger.

So Windows recommends 150% for this particular one,

but Mike Myers likes it a little bit bigger.

So you always wanna make sure that you adjust your scale

for your text apps and other items

to something that matches what you wanna see.

Monitors are generally pretty easy to deal

with within the Windows world.

The only other step I would recommend

at this point is to go ahead and update your drivers.

Surprisingly Windows Update does a pretty good job

about updating video drivers these days.

However, a lot of people just like to go

to the individual websites, pull down the latest driver,

and make sure that you're looking good.

Last, pretty much

all video manufacturers will have some kind

of little utility that's running that allows you

to make a lot of adjustments.

And one of those is check for updates.

And a lot of people enjoy those

'cause it's an easy one-stop,

make sure you got the right update driver, place.