-: Why have just one monitor

when you can have multiple monitors?

So in this episode, I wanna talk

about Microsoft Windows use of multiple monitors.

It's absolutely fantastic.

All my desktop systems have multiple monitors

just because, well, I need all the real estate.

So what I wanna do is kind of go

through the idea of multiple monitors.

First of all, you don't need a special video card.

You don't even have to have them plugged

into the same video card.

You can have one monitor plugged

into your built-in graphics

and another one plugged into a graphics card,

it doesn't matter.

They don't have to be the same resolution

they don't have to be the same size.

However, I will tell you it's often a lot more convenient

to use multiple monitors when you do have two monitors

that are matching in resolution,

and even size is nice too.

So I've got a couple of monitors in front of me.

They have the same resolution, different size, who cares?

And let's go through some of the ideas of multiple monitor.

The first thing we need to do is make sure

that the system sees both monitors.

I'm gonna go over

and I'm gonna click on my display settings.

And the first thing I'm gonna notice is right here.

Do you see the one and the two?

It's telling me that it sees two monitors.

Now, by default

this one is only displaying on the first monitor.

But if I want to

I can go through the process of identifying them.

And now I see both of my monitors.

That number is really important.

Make sure you know which one is number one

and which one is number two

because that can get you in trouble,

and I'll show you why in just a second.

So the first thing I wanna do is I want to go ahead

and duplicate these displays.

So the moment I click on this, you'll see that whatever is

in one monitor is showing up exactly in the other monitor.

So whatever I click here is showing up on the other monitor.

Not very exciting.

What most people like to do is they like to

extend their display.

So I'm gonna come down here

and this time I'm going to extend the display.

Now notice you don't have a lot of time

to make a choice here.

In about nine, eight, seven,

it's going to revert back to whatever it was.

I want to click keep changes.

And now what I've done is I've actually

extended the display.

So as I start over here to the left,

as I move over to the right, you'll see my mouse appears.

So I can open up a window

and you'll notice that I can just drag that window right

over to the other system.

So let's close this.

So if you take a look,

the other thing that's really handy

is that you can orient your monitors.

You can put 'em top and bottom if you want.

I, I've never personally done that

but you're welcome to go for that.

The only downside to this process, if I open up a window

now if I go to the right, it disappears

but if I move it over to the left, yeah, okay

so that can cause a little bit of confusion.

You need to be careful about that.

So I'm gonna go ahead

and put those back the way they should be.

Let me apply that.

And now when I open up a window,

it should be back to normal.

Yay.

Cool.

-: Now the last thing I wanna show you is

what we call

your main display.

So you'll see right now

I'm on number one and that's my main display.

So I'm gonna click on two now.

And now I'm gonna make this the main display.

Now watch really closely what happens.

It's subtle but important.

You'll see what's happened

is the search bar and my task bar

have now appeared on the other monitor.

So that's the whole goal of a main display.

You can do a lot with multiple monitors.

I've plugged in three, four, five different monitors

into a single system.

As long as you got places to plug it in

there is some maximum.

I don't know what it is, it's not on the exam.

Also, you could do things like, for example

turning all your monitors into landscape mode.

I know a lot of people who are doing a lot

of print work and they really, really like to have that.

There's a lot you can do with multiple monitors.

Give it a whirl.

I mean, it just makes Windows that much better.