-: Now let's talk about how you can use this video course

to make sure that you easily pass the CompTIA A+ exam.

Now, this is our book here.

This is the McGraw Hill "CompTIA A+ Certification

All-In-One Exam Guide, 11th Edition."

And this book covers both exams.

So the 220-1101 or Core 1 side

and the 220-1102 or Core 2 side.

The book chapters follow along perfectly in sync

with the video chapters so you can actually watch the video,

learn, and reinforce your knowledge by using the book.

Now, another thing you need

to know about this video course is

that sometimes we're gonna present little popups like this,

and this is a key term popup,

and you're gonna want to make sure

that you pay attention to these and learn these terms.

Also, you may see an objective term like this, right?

And those objective terms directly relate

to what CompTIA has on the exam,

so make sure you pay attention to those as well.

Sometimes from time to time,

I'm gonna give you a little exam tip,

and those icons look like that, right?

So make sure you pay attention when you see those exam tips.

And one final thing.

I'm gonna give you tips from time to time

that may not necessarily be covered on the exam

but will make you a better PC technician,

and you're gonna see those look like that.

At the end of every episode,

you're gonna notice that we have a bunch

of summarized points.

That's your quick review,

and those are gonna help you quickly

understand what all we covered on

that chapter or in that video

and help you summarize the important parts.

You're also gonna find all sorts of resources

where they're gonna include the exam objectives we

talked about and information and links from each episode,

as well as links to things like Mike's Cool Tools

and Steve's Super Sites.

One final thing you're gonna have

is an objective map for the episodes.

So this resource is gonna be able

to drill down into the very specific sub-objectives

and help you know where to go to find that in each chapter.

That's it!

That's how you use this video course and our book.

If you use both of them and if you follow the objectives

and the summarizations we've outlined,

you'll have no problem passing the A+ exam.