-: I love this old projector.

I've been using this thing now for about seven years

and I love it to death.

We've done hundreds of presentations together.

Getting a little old, but still love it.

In this episode, I want to talk about projectors.

Projectors are basically just monitors.

They've got regular graphics connectors in the back.

I see an HDMI, even got an old VGA on the back of this one,

and we plug them into our graphics cards

and they project out onto screens.

So that's really all they are to it.

Most projectors today

are gonna use two different technologies.

We're gonna see DLP and we're also gonna be seeing LCD.

Those are the big dominant ones.

There have been a few others,

but either they're a little weird or they're a little dated.

When it comes to light sources, though,

that's a really big deal when it comes to projectors.

A lot of times you're gonna have some kind

of big light bulb in there,

although we do see them with LEDs now.

The important thing is that they are all going to be sold

at a certain amount of brightness known as lumens.

This is a really important thing.

When you're buying a projector,

if you don't have enough lumens, it's gonna look terrible.

So for me in, like, a small area

where I can make it pretty dark,

around 1,000, maybe 1,200 lumens is usually okay.

If I'm in a place where I've got a lot of light,

I'm probably gonna be looking at 2,500 lumens

or even greater.

They sell these guys

that are in the many, many thousands of lumens

and it's just a matter of the thickness of your wallet.

The other big deal with the light source

is that the bulbs can actually go out.

This is one of the reasons I love LED projectors

because the bulbs last forever.

Bulbs can be outrageously expensive on projectors,

so that's something you really need to be thinking about

when you buy one.

Okay, the other big deal when it comes to projectors

is what we call throw.

Let me show you what I mean.

So here I've got a projector.

Now, if you think about it, it makes sense,

the further out you project, the bigger the screen gets.

Equally, the closer you come in, the smaller it gets.

This is known as your throw.

All projectors are gonna have a minimum

and a maximum recommended throw distance.

I mean, if you think about it, that makes sense.

A little portable projector,

you're not gonna want to shoot it across a football field.

So you wanna work within these throws.

Now, this can be a big deal,

especially if you have an area

where you want a very short distance.

They do a lot of things to make it easier for you.

A lot of them will have adjustability

that'll allow you to adjust the screen size.

You can even get replaceable lenses

that will allow you to adjust the throw dramatically

if you've got a small room

or if you've got a really large room,

but you love that particular projector.

The other challenge we run into with our projectors

is that we always are dealing

with what we call geometric adjustments.

When you fire this thing out on the wall the first time,

you're gonna be dealing with a lot of lenses

and you get some fairly interesting shapes.

First is something we call a pin cushion.

A pin cushion shape is going to be looking

like a nice fat pin cushion,

but it can also be shrunk in

and that is also a pin cushion shape.

And invariably, you're gonna have some menu settings on here

which will allow you to make adjustments like that.

The other one is keystone.

Now, a keystone looks just like a keystone here,

but it could be also inverted.

And again, you need to adjust those out.

Keystone's particularly big problem

when you're projecting on a ceiling

and shooting down onto a wall

or if your projector's very low and shooting up.

So we need to be able to adjust that keystone out.

The last one, more uncommon, but it is still out there,

is called skew.

So it looks a little bit like a keystone

except it's more like a tilted over one way or the other.

And again, you wanna make sure that you have adjustments

to take care of that stuff.

The amount of adjusting you'll do

once you mount a projector

can be absolutely mind-boggling.

Sometimes it can take 30, 40 minutes

'cause, well, I'm picky and I want it to look just right.

Now, these are some of the basics

that you're gonna be running into on projectors.

The big things I want you to take away

is, number one, get a projector

that has a bulb that's gonna last you a long time.

In fact, LED, in my opinion's, the way to go.

Number two, make sure you're comfortable

with the concept of throw

and keep that in mind when you're buying the projector.

And then third, make sure you're comfortable

with geometric adjustments

because they're just the kind of thing

that'll drive you crazy

when you're installing that new projector.