-: I think it's an important skill for any nerd

to be able to cut and crimp their own cable.

You should be able to take a chunk of Cat-whatever,

and crimp it up,

and make yourself a nice piece of network cable from that.

Personally, I carry around a 100 foot piece

of unshielded twisted pair cable

for all kinds of network testing.

Okay, well it's not in my pocket, but it's in my car.

So let's go ahead and talk about what it takes

to cut and crimp your own cable.

So take a look here.

I've got a little tiny short length of, this is Cat5E,

which is just a little bit easier

to show in front of a camera.

And what we have here are crimps. These are RJ-45 crimps.

Now, one thing you need to be aware of

when it comes to crimps is that they also have a Cat rating.

So if you're gonna be cutting and crimping Cat5E cable,

make sure you go to the store and get Cat5E crimps,

because you have to match them up.

Also, I need to warn you right now.

Some of the more advanced types of cable, like Cat6A,

are really, really challenging to crimp.

You can do it, but it takes a little bit of work.

So anyway, let's dive in.

So the first thing I'm gonna do

is I've got this handy dandy. (tool clicking)

Well, here, take a look at this.

This is a cable crimper and cutter.

It will cut the different cables.

You can see that piece of razor.

And it also has a crimping tool for RJ-45 and RJ-11.

So this one tool is about all I need to get myself started.

So first of all, I'm gonna cut this thing.

(tool clicking)

Now keep in mind, there's Kevlar in there,

and it can be a real pain.

So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna cut down about an inch.

It's hard to see, but it actually has a place

where I can cut the jacket away,

as well as something to absolutely cut it.

So first of all, I'm gonna cut

about an inch of this blue jacket off.

(tool clicking)

Nice.

So you can see I've gone ahead,

and I've cut away the blue jacket.

So I've got some Kevlar here. I'm gonna pull that back.

And you can see, here are my four pairs.

You'll notice that it's orange, blue, green, and brown.

These colors are important.

Because what we're gonna have to do

is untwist each of these, slide them into our crimp

in a very specific order.

There are two different standards here.

One's called TIA 568A, and the other is called TIA 568B.

Now before I show those to you, what I want you to do

is take a really close look at this crimp.

So you'll notice I've got a little tab on the bottom.

And based on that tab, starting on your right,

that's pin number one.

And then counting from your right over to your left,

that's 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.

Make sure you got this orientation right.

So when we're talking about colors,

with each pair, you have two colors in the pair.

You have a solid brown,

and then a brown white, or a lot of times,

you'll hear people say "brown white stripe."

Then we're gonna have green, green white,

blue, blue white, orange, orange white.

Get the idea?

So what we need to do is we have to be very careful,

because each standard defines exactly

what hole in the crimp we put each particular color.

So let me go ahead

and show you right now TIA 568A and TIA 568B.

So the nice thing about TIA 568A and TIA 568B,

four of the wires go in the exact same place.

So if it starts with a B, it stays in the same place.

So down in position eight, that's gonna be brown.

In position seven, that's brown white.

And then, blue is in position four.

And then, blue white is in position five.

So that leaves one, two, three, and six open.

Now the trick is A stands for alphabetical.

We've got green and orange, right?

So green now comes before orange.

So we go ahead and do white green and green

into position one and two, and then white orange and orange

into the two remaining positions.

TIA 568B is exactly the same,

except we simply swap out the orange and the green.

So I need to warn you right now.

Mike Meyers may be a popular trainer,

but that doesn't mean that I'm really good

or fast at crimping these cables.

So bear with me a minute while I get the crimps on.

(energetic upbeat music)

So this is an intermediate step.

What I've done is I've untwisted all of the different ones,

and I'm slowly flattening and laying them out.

So you can see I'm doing 568A,

because I'm doing the greens before the orange.

So I'm gonna keep slowly working this

and create a nice broom shape.

(energetic upbeat music)

Mm, look how pretty that is.

Notice I've got a death grip on these.

If I let this go, they're gonna go everywhere,

but I've got them laid out nice and flat.

The challenge we have here

is that in order to stay within any Cat rating,

the distance from the last twist

to where you actually punch down

in the crimp has to be half an inch.

I am personally incapable of doing that,

but I can get pretty close.

And here's where I'll cheat

and actually use a pair of scissors

instead of the cutter on my crimper.

And I make a nice straight cut.

Look how pretty that is.

And I'm gonna take one more eyeball

and make sure I've got it set to 56A.

It looks good.

And then, I just push it into the back of the crimp,

and I shove it in.

Now there's vampire punches in here.

So what I'm gonna do is hold it up to the light

and make sure that they've gone all the way up.

I don't know if we can catch this. Let's take a look.

You see how the colors

are going almost to the end of the crimp?

So that tells me I'm probably in good shape.

Notice I've also got the Kevlar pushed to the back.

(tool clicking)

Okay, so now I put it into the crimper.

(tool clicking)

And I am halfway done. Let's do it again.

(energetic upbeat music)

(energetic upbeat music)

So be careful with these crimpers.

Notice that there's a notch for the actual little tab.

On the other side, there's no notch.

If you try to shove it in here,

you've probably not only ruined your cable,

but you probably ruined the crimper just as much.

(tool clicking)

Okay, well here's the moment of truth.

Now it's time to actually test the cable.

So what you need is some kind of cable tester.

I use the Fluke Networks Microscanner Pro,

but you can use a lot of other ones.

Basically, you're checking for, number one, continuity.

Is it connected from one end to the other?

And the other thing you're checking is wire map.

Do I have the right color in pin one to pin one?

And you get the idea? They have to be in the right spots.

By the way, if you've got them wired properly,

this is what we call a Straight-through cable.

So let's go ahead and test this thing.

So this is a pretty cable.

You'll notice, "1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8,

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8."

So this is telling me I've got a good wire map

and I have good continuity.

What I want to do this time

is I'm gonna mess this up a little bit on purpose,

and I want to show you what an error might look like.

These are easily abused. That should do it.

Let's see what happens.

In this particular example, I'm missing continuity.

We'll see that 3, 6, 7, and 8 are not connected.

Now if I were to plug these in,

and I saw something like, "1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8,"

and on the other side it said, "8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1,"

or something like that,

that's gonna tell me that I've got them backwards.

And that's actually a very interesting type of cable.

If you wire one side 568A and you wire the other side 568B,

you're creating a very special type of cable

known as a Crossover cable.

Crossover cables are actually kind of handy.

One of the things you can do with them

is you can actually plug two computers directly together,

no switch, no nothing, and they will actually be able

to talk to each other most of the time.

It depends on the network card.

So make sure you're comfortable with the difference

between a Straight-through,

which is wired the same on each side,

and then a Crossover,

which is gonna be A on one side and B on the other.

Take your time when you're playing with cables.

It's not the easiest thing to do,

and it's not uncommon to try over and over again,

cutting off a crimp, and just keeping practicing.

And one day you'll be as good as me.