-: If you think about network cabling, if you wanted to, you could take a switch like this, put it in the middle of a room, plug it in. And then you could have everybody make their own cables, plug it into the switch, and then go ahead and plug it into their individual systems. Well, that would be a really bad idea because you're leaving cables all over the floor. So it's a hazard not only to people but to your data. What we want is we want our cables in the walls. We want 'em in the walls in an organized way that the cables are safe, and then we can connect when we need to. This is known as structured cabling. Now, structured cabling begins usually in a closet or some kind of room that we will often call the main distribution frame or intermediate distribution frame. It's the closet where the equipment is. And we're gonna see something like this. This is a 19-inch equipment rack, and it's extremely standard. In fact, not only is the 19-inch a standard, but these heights, which are known as a U, are extremely standard as well. So this thing, which we don't know what it is yet, is one U high. Here's a switch that's designed to be mounted into a rack. It is a one U switch, and it's designed for us to just go ahead and screw this guy in, which I'm not gonna do right now, but let me go ahead and just set this off to the side. So from your equipment rack, what we're going to do is we're going to have what we call the horizontal runs. This is a run that runs to the different wall outlets throughout your local area network and runs into the back of this fella, which we call a patch panel. Now here's how this all works. Let me put this together for you. What I have here in front of me are a couple of little cables. There's nothing special about these cables. So you're gonna see that we have this big extra rubber chunk on here. We call this a boot. The reason we call that a boot is because these cables, patch cables, are going to act as the actual interconnections for all of this. So let's go ahead and start with, let's start with this white patch cable. So from the wall outlet, we're gonna snap in. Woo, there we go. So this is snapped in and ready to go. And what we're gonna do is we're gonna take one of these patch cables, we plug in here, and this end goes into our computer. Inside the equipment room, we're gonna take our switch. And normally, this would be screwed down, but for now, I'm just gonna leave it hanging like this. And what we're gonna do is there's a number back here that I correlate to, and I'm gonna plug in here, and then I'm gonna plug in anywhere in the switch. So what we have is, from the switch, we have one patch cable, which goes into the patch panel. Then we have the horizontal run, and this is running through the plenum in the walls and everything. And it comes in here, and then it goes out into our individual systems. That's one horizontal run. This is the most important part there is to a structured cabling setup. Now, according to TIA rules, the longest run you can have for one of these horizontal runs is 90 meters, which is interesting because ethernet allows in almost all situations 100 meter runs. The reason they make it 90 meters is they're compensating for the individual patch cables themselves. So the idea is that you can have up to 10 meters of patch cable. So this is, in the most simple sense of the word, how we would set up an individual horizontal run. Why don't we take a look at a more serious workaday type of structured cabling setup? So this is the actual main distribution frame for my little company here at Total Seminars. First of all, if you look there towards the top, you'll see that we have a pretty big patch panel there. That patch panel out the back, you'll see there's a whole bunch of runs that are running to the many, many different wall outlets here in the office. Coming down from that patch panel, you're gonna see a ton of little patch cables. And what those are plugged into is my switch. In fact, there's so many patch cables. My switch is slightly obscured, and that's perfectly fine. And if you actually look down a little bit more, you're gonna notice that these are actual server systems. So these are rack-mounted computers that are providing file services for my little bit of network. So you're gonna see patch panels, switches, and even some computers on a rack. So the one other thing I wanna show you is how do we actually connect to these 110 punch-downs. Now to do that, we're gonna use a 110 punch-down tool, and I've got this piece of run here. Let's go ahead and punch down into this guy. So the first thing I want you to notice is that it has 568 A and B here. But if you look at the diagram, you'll see that that's not what we've seen in other episodes. That's because the patch panel will rewire them however it wants into the actual connectors. So we need to follow this in order to make sure we have 568 A or B. Now, the tool we're gonna use is this fella right here. So this is a 110 punch-down tool. What's important is that you notice one tip sticks out a little bit more than the others. And what we're gonna be doing is we're gonna actually be punching down, and we wanna make sure that this is always on the outside no matter what we do. So let's go ahead and punch down. (playful upbeat music) So what I'm doing for starters here is I'm just kinda dropping the individual wires in here. What I don't wanna do is have these on this side really tight and then these are really wide. So kinda just get 'em about right. So we're gonna do A, so I'm gonna do orange next. And by the way, the patterns on these patch panels change by manufacturer. So because you're seeing this here, that doesn't mean it's gonna be the same with the patch panel you buy. So I got a few of those in. Let's start punching. (tool clicking) (tool clicking continues) (playful upbeat music) So that looks pretty nice. Well, how do you know you did a good 110 punch-down? Well, the answer is you need to use a cable tester. Now in this case, what I'm gonna use is I've got this cable tester I've used in other episodes. Now, if you look at the end of this cable tester, you see that I can put both ends in here. Now that's gonna be a real problem when it comes to having a big long run with everything in the walls and all that. So a good tester is always gonna come with a little remote. So I can go ahead and plug one end in here, and I can plug the other end at the wall outlet right here, and I can actually do an end-to-end test. The tests are the same as we see in other episodes. I wanna do a continuity test, and I want to do a wire map test. However, there is one more test you might wanna consider. And it's not really testing per se. It's more a matter of locating, and that's where we come up with the fox and the hound. This is a tone generator, and this is a tone probe. This is the fox because it's making a noise, and this is the hound because he finds the noise. Now we use these all the time to locate cables. A lot of times, for example, you'll have a wall outlet, and you have no idea where it shows up in the patch panel. So these tools really come into play. Now, I don't use the built-in fox because my little Fluke MicroScanner has a built-in fox in it. This is a really handy tool. It's also about 500 bucks. So what I can do here is I can put it into, it's a special mode, and what you can hear is this. You ready? Listen. (playful tune) I could even change the tone if I need to. For example, if I had a few of these. (accelerating playful tune) You get the idea? What this allows us to do is to find a homeless cable. It allows us to track down and locate where something should be. I can't tell you how many times I've walked up to a wall outlet and I had no idea where it was in the patch panel, and using a tool like this (playful tune) really saves your bacon. There is one more test you might wanna consider, and that's called time domain reflectometer, or TDR. TDR just uses the speed of light to be able to detect how long a cable is. And it can often be a really handy test. For example, if I've got a 40-meter run of cable from my patch panel to my wall outlet, and I put a TDR on there, and it says 20 meters, you might have a break somewhere in the walls, which is the ultimate thing that we never wanna do. The last thing I wanna mention is that we actually use different types of unshielded twisted pair. One type, which we call solid core, is what we put into the walls themselves. Solid core means each one of those eight wires is a solid piece of copper. It carries electricity really, really well, and we like to use that. For the patch cables themselves though, we use stranded, where each one of those eight wires is actually stranded. The nice thing about a patch is that it's flexible, and because we have stranded in there, we won't break it. So it's not as good, but we won't break anything. And make sure you're comfortable with those because you will hear about stranded and solid on the A+ exam. Now sometimes, with all these cables and connectors and ports comes the need for us to actually test those and test their physical operability and see if they're actually functioning correctly. One quick and easy way that we can do that is with what's called a loopback plug or a loopback cable. Now, basically, with these two devices is we take the output signal and reverse it with the input signal. So we have one handy little device we can plug right into a port or a connector, or a cable, and test whether or not that is physically functioning properly or not. Now you'll see over here some wiring diagrams that come from our friends over at Oracle from not only the 10/100 but also gigabit and fast ethernet standards here. But this is an actual picture of a loopback plug for an RJ-45 port that someone themselves would actually set up. And as you can see, if you actually pull up the T568A or T568B wiring diagram, you would notice that the input signal is reversed with the output signal here. And so this is a great way for testing if the port physically works or not. Now, if you're looking for more commercial alternative, these are sold, these are relatively cheap. You can find them, and they're handy to keep on a keychain, especially if you're a systems admin or a network engineer. Just plug 'em in and you know right away if that port is good. And they also make them for fiber connections as well. So if somebody that has fiber run out to your house or if you deal with a multi-mode or single-mode fiber, you have the ability to also test those fiber ports as well with a loopback plug or a loopback cable. So again, just another tool in our arsenal that helps us test the physical efficiency and operability of specific cables, connectors, and ports.