-: If you want an individual computer or as we often say host

in the networking world to connect to your network

it's gonna need some kind of network card.

So what I got right here is a very old school

network interface card or NIC.

So it's actually a card and you would snap it

into your computer and if you look here on the end

it's got a little RJ-45 connector.

And this is how we connected to our networks.

We had to actually stamp this in, came with a driver's disc.

We've done that stuff before.

Now network cards are almost never simple cards anymore.

They're almost always built in.

Like for example, I got this motherboard here

and it's got a built-in network card.

Even this laptop here has got a built-in NIC.

So let's get some terminology down right now.

Even though nobody uses a card anymore

we still call it a network card or a NIC

guess it's just a interface now.

But we use the term network hard or NIC.

Now, if you're gonna be installing a NIC, odds are good.

It's come off your motherboard

and it's gonna be installed with your motherboard drivers

which we've covered in other episodes.

So we're going to assume I've got a good install here.

So let's take a look at Device Manager on my system.

Now if we take a look at Device Manager

so here's network adapters.

I'm gonna open this up and first of all

ignore all these WAN things.

This is a Windows thing

and we'll touch on this in other episodes.

But what's important here is right here that is my built in

on the motherboard network card.

Now I have this other thing in here

but I want you to notice, do you see that little down arrow?

That means it's disabled.

So for some reason I've chosen to disable that,

if I wanted to enable it, I could turn it back on.

So I don't have any scary exclamation points or anything.

So I know the driver is up and running and in good order.

However, there's often a lot of little very

interesting settings that are covered on the A+.

So we need to dig a little bit deeper here

in Device Manager.

So what I wanna do is right click

on that particular NIC and go to properties.

Now there's a lot of stuff in here that we've seen

in other episodes like events, you know, general stuff.

But what's really interesting here is advanced.

You've got all kinds

of settings in here and different network cards

will have very different settings in here.

Now, the A+ does not expect you to know all of these.

In fact, I don't know them all

but there's a couple that do come up.

In particular is speed and duplex.

Now, right now you'll see it's set to auto negotiation.

But look at these other options.

This system has a one gigabit network card built into it.

However, sometimes situations take place where

you might wanna turn it down a little bit.

First of all is duplex.

Most network cards today, certainly in the one gigabit

and better range, all run what we call full duplex.

Full duplex means that it's talking

and listening at the exact same time.

So there are a few unique situations where

you might wanna turn it to half duplex.

So let's see what we can do here in terms

of sending it not only to half duplex, but slowing it down.

So one gigabyte per second is only full duplex

but I've got 100 megabit

per second half duplex and 10 megabit per second

half duplex as well as 10 megabit per second full duplex

and a hundred megabit per second full duplex.

If there's a situation where you need to change it

well this is the place to do it.

Now this is on the A+, but I will tell you

from a personal standpoint, I have almost never

had to make this particular setting change.

I set it to auto and I leave it alone and it works great.

The one time I've had to go in here and set things to

half duplex is when I made a crossover cable

plugged it into two laptops, and

in order to get them to talk to each other

I had to kick 'em down to half duplex.

Literally in 25 years of working on computers

that's about the only situation where I've ever

had to mess with this.

So be aware of that.

Now the other thing that is often really

handy is something called wake-on-LAN.

Wake-on-LAN simply wakes up a computer when it's turned

off if certain information comes in.

Now what we call that is we call it the magic packet.

So I could be an administrator and I'm

on a system and I wanna distribute an update

to all the computers that are under my purview.

The problem is a lot of 'em will be turned off.

Maybe it's a Saturday, right?

'Cause I don't want to have everybody go down

during a workday.

So what I can do is I can send

out a update and this update will include this magic packet

which is designed to wake people up.

Wake-on-LAN is a great idea, it sounds like.

Oh, so anytime anything happens on the LAN, I'll wake up.

Well, on today's LANs, everything's happening.

So if you just set wake on any LAN activity

it would always be on

'cause you'd never have a chance to turn it off.

So let's take a look at what settings we have for that.

These are invariably under power management.

So number one, allow the computer to turn off this device.

But here's where I'm talking about Wake on LAN.

Allow this device to wake the computer

and only allow a magic packet to wake this computer.

If you're gonna check this box

I guarantee you you'll be checking this box as well.

You're only gonna be setting Wake-on-LAN

if some administrator on high says, look

we need to have Wake-on-LAN on all these

'cause I like to run updates and these computers go down.

The other thing to remember on Wake-on-LAN is

that there is invariably in your system set up some type

of setting that says enable Wake-on-LAN in there as well.

So you need to be careful with that.

Also while you're in there.

Also keep in mind is that you can almost always turn

off these built-in network carts and

I've had a lot of frustration where I'm trying to figure out

why a NIC won't show up in Device Manager

only to discover that somebody actually disabled it

in their system setup.

So don't let that one catch you either.

Okay, so now I'm up and cooking, everybody's happy.

What I wanna talk about now

is the concept of what we call link lights.

So to do this, I've kind of got this pushed over

but we've got another camera over here.

So you can see this is

I've got a switch right here and I've also got a system.

Now if you take a look as we've got them connected

anytime you have a device connected to a switch

you have what are called link lights.

Now link lights are gonna tell you three things.

Number one, you're gonna have one link light

that says I am connected to a switch.

You're gonna have another link light that says

how fast am I running?

Keep in mind that a gigabit network card

if it's connected to a hundred megabit switch

it's gonna run at a hundred megabits.

So they auto negotiate this when you fire everything up.

And the third thing it's gonna show you is activity.

So let's make sure we got this.

If you've got a link, there will be a link light

and it will be steady and on all the time.

Then you're gonna have a speed light.

And by the way, the link light

and the speed light are often the same light.

It just changes color

and there is no standard on colors, folks, so don't ask me.

You're gonna have to look up the documentation

on your network card to figure

out what the different colors mean in terms of speed.

The last one though

the activity light will always be flickering.

So it's a really slow network.

Maybe it'll be quiet for a second or two.

And then ba ba ba ba ba

it's very important

that you recognize the different types

of activity that the activity light does.

The link light does and the speed light does.

Remember the link light is on and steady

the activity light is flickering.

That is normal operation.

So let's take a look at what we got over here.

So first of all, if you take a look at the switch

the switches link lights are way over here on the left.

So I have to correlate that to the port number over here.

And I can see I've got, well, that's an on light

but then there's a link light next to it.

Now if we go down and look

at the actual connection on the back of my motherboard

you'll see I've got two lights.

I've got a steady on link light

and that color reflects that

it's probably running at a hundred megabits per second.

It's a gigabit card in there.

And then I also have an activity light

which should be flickering on and off.

Don't let a bad NIC ever cause trouble

for you as part of your troubleshooting.

Network cards are pretty steady, and once they're installed

they tend to run forever and they run great.

The other danger you run into though is with the link lights

and trusting them on perfect connectivity.

So you've got something plugged in

and you look on the back of your computer

and all of a sudden it shows link lights are going

or at least a connectivity light, and you're like, oh

I'm connected to a switch.

If you go over to the switch

you may find that the switch doesn't have a link light

and that's a big challenge with link lights.

Yes, checking the link lights is always

a good idea to ensure network connectivity.

If you really wanna ensure your network connectivity

go ahead, check out the link light

on the back of your system

but head on over to your distribution frame

find the switch that you're plugged into

and make sure that it also has a link light.