-: I'm gambling that most of us out here

have heard the term IP address.

So I'd like to start off

by showing you what would be a typical IP address

you might see on a computer today.

So here's 192.168.5.10.

Does that look familiar to you?

These four digits separated by three dots.

What we're looking at are the addresses

that help us get information

to any computer on the internet.

Without these IP addresses,

the internet's not going to work.

But to really understand how all this started,

we gotta go way back in time,

back in the time when we wanted big networks

but we didn't have one yet.

And what we're gonna start with

is here in the United States.

Here's a map of the continental United States.

So here, there's Maine and Florida.

So if we got, you know what, wait a minute.

We're gonna do this live.

Forget about it.

Okay, let's do this with me in front of you

'cause I love talking about this stuff.

So here's our map of the United States. (humming)

I'm from Texas. (humming)

There's Florida.

All right, so here's the map of the United States.

Now, all around the United States

are military installations,

and there was military installations,

there was also a lot of universities.

The idea is that we had, all over the United States,

thousands of local area networks,

and we wanted to interconnect these local area networks

so that anybody in one LAN could talk to another LAN.

Get the idea?

So we would have connections, a LAN up here in Chicago,

and a LAN over here in San Jose,

LAN over here in Boston,

LAN down here at Rice University in Houston,

somewhere in northern Florida.

The idea here is that we would have these individual LANs,

and we wanna connect them.

Now we're talking the late 1970s, early 1980s here.

So these were connected

through basically telephone lines back in the old days.

And this was being designed

by an organization called ARPANET,

or ARPA is the same organization today.

And the idea is that we would create multiple connections

to these individual nodes,

which would then act to help other nodes.

And more importantly, if any of these nodes went down,

if this one went kaboom, we could reroute this information,

and it would still get to everybody.

Now the problem is, is we need some kind

of numbering system to organize all this.

Now, they were coming up with this numbering system back

in the late 1970s, early eighties,

and they were thinking, well, you know,

one day there could be, you know, 10, 20,000 computers

on this thing,

which we're eventually gonna call the internet,

so we need to think big.

Yeah, they didn't think that big.

So basically, what you have is you've got four numbers.

So I'm gonna say, for this example,

I'm gonna say 10.11.12.13.

Each one of these values called an octet

can go from zero to 255.

All the different combinations

come up to around 4 billion addresses.

And back in the late seventies, early eighties,

they go, "This is gonna be great."

Now keep in mind, every computer on this thing,

which will eventually be called the internet,

must have its own IP address,

but not just its own IP address.

We're gonna have all of these LANs all over the place.

So this number is gonna do two things at the same time.

Number one, it's going to identify

which local area network you're a member of.

And number two, it's gonna give you a unique,

what we call, host id that's unique only to you.

Got it? All right.

So the whole idea between taking these

and breaking them into four groups with three dots

is that we would have what was called tier one

of the internet.

Now this was the original plan.

And there would be some local area network here, a router,

and he would be called the 10 router.

And then this router over here

in Rice University in Houston

would've been called the 12 router.

I am making these numbers up,

but this is basically how it happened.

Then over here in San Jose, this would be the six router.

Well, Mike, why didn't they do one, two, three, four?

Because they're computer nerds, and they,

this guy over here liked the number six, there was no rules.

It was wild west back then.

All right, so this is kind of the basic idea.

Now what I'm gonna do now is I'm gonna concentrate

on Rice University.

That's Galveston Bay.

Here's Galveston Island.

This is the southeast coast of Texas.

Here's Houston.

And right about here is Rice University.

So Rice University is going to be 12.

Now the problem here is that there's a lot of people

in the Houston area who also want to be connected

to this thing, which will eventually be called the internet.

So what will happen at say over at University of Houston,

University of Houston, instead of connecting

to the big top part,

they're gonna get their own little router,

And Rice University is then going to call that router 12.1.

Now here's the important thing.

Anybody who hooks to the 12 router,

their IP address will start with a 12.

Now it's up to the folks here at Rice University

to delegate down to whoever needs it.

And back then this was all free,

and everybody loved each other,

and this stuff was easy to get.

So now all of a sudden, University of Houston is 12.1.

Well, there's a lot of computers at University of Houston.

They've got the parallel processing center.

They've got the engineering college.

They've even got a art college,

and I don't know those artsy types.

They wanna have their own little local area network as well.

So what we're gonna do from there

is we're then gonna start passing out.

So the parallel processing, they're gonna be 12.1.44.

Again, nobody ever did these in order,

just out of cruelty I think.

And then over here is gonna be 12.1.27.

And those crazy art people,

well, they're gonna be 12.1.28.

There we go.

Now notice these numbers are all different.

These are all separate local area networks.

Now we've got one more digit, right?

Well that last digit is for the individual computers.

So what would happen is

that this one little local area network here

would have the network ID of 12.1.44,

and then the individual computers would be 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,

all the way up to 254 because you cannot use zero or 255.

And in other episodes, we'll explain why that happened.

So there is a little bit of limitation but not much.

So the whole idea behind the whole internet

was gonna be what we call aggregation.

And it didn't quite pan out that way

because sometimes other people,

like another Comcast would come in

and put a different kind of numbering system in.

But the bottom line is that it works.

Now what's interesting is that they designed this

in such a way that it had a lot of flexibility.

So for example, if you needed an IP address, oh, by the way,

you don't just type these into your computer.

These are allocated to you

by the Internet Authorized Numbering Authority,

they're IANA.

And the idea is that no two computers

on the internet can ever have the same IP address.

So you don't just magically type this in.

Somebody from on high passes you down a block of addresses.

So for example, you would call up,

if you're at University of Houston,

you'd call up the U of H people,

and they would allocate something 12.1, dot whatever.

If University of Houston wanted even more,

then they'd call up Rice University,

and Rice University would give them a 12.3,

or whatever was next on the list.

You get the idea?

So you always came down from on high

and got yourself a block of addresses.

Any block of addresses where the first three numbers are set

and you can do anything you want on the fourth number,

we call those Class C.

If you get a block of addresses,

now there's another limitation here,

I'm gonna avoid this for the moment.

And the first two numbers are locked,

it's a Class B.

And then if the first number is locked

and you get to do whatever you want with the last three,

then we call it a Class A.

If you have a Class C address,

you have 254 hosts you can have in that local area network.

If you have a Class B, you get 256 and 256, about.

And if you've got a Class A, it's in the millions.

So most of the time, the people who got class A's

were people like Rice University

or somebody they knew they were gonna pass it down to.

The bottom line is, is that we live

in a world where IP addresses are based on the idea

that you're always going to be no more

than four routers away from the top of the internet.

And boy, did they make a mistake there.

So the total address space

of the IP addressing was about 4 billion IP addresses.

But the problem is a lot of them were wasted

on all kinds of dumb stuff.

Like for example, no address can end with 255.

So that gets rid of a bunch.

Or you would have certain addresses,

like anything that started with one was experimental.

They called it reserved, and nobody could use them.

So there was lots of limitations.

4 billion sounds like a lot even in today's world,

but it was nowhere near enough.

You're gonna have to watch other episodes

to see how we snuck around this limitation

'cause we've done a pretty good job of it.

Right now what's important to me is

that you understand the nomenclature of an IP address.

So let's make sure.

We have four characters,

and these characters go from zero to 255.

You will have three dots in between them,

and watch out on the exam.

They will actually have examples up

where they'll have an IP address,

and it'll have like 257 in it or something like that.

And they're gonna say, which of these four is valid?

Not the one with 257.

Also, keep in mind that addresses never end

with a zero or a 255, and we'll save that for other episodes

to make you understand why that exactly is.

With IP addressing,

we're gonna add something to our frame here.

So what I'm gonna do is now add in

the destination IP address and the source IP address.

This is going to allow us to jump

from local area network to local area network.

So to actually watch all this in action,

let's zoom in a little bit, and I'm gonna concentrate

on just two small local area networks

that just happen to be connected together

with the same router.

I've got two local area networks here.

Now there's a switch in here,

and I'm gonna draw some computers.

I just like to draw a circle

to show you what the network ID is.

Inside every one of these computers

I have entered a value that starts

with 10 dot, 11 dot, 12 dot something.

So we put a zero on the end to show that we're not talking

about a computer, we're talking about a network id.

So that's one of the reasons we can't put a zero

on the end of an IP address,

'cause it identifies an entire LAN.

So this computer right here might be 10.11.12.44,

and this one right here might be 10.11.12.222.

Those numbers get in there because somebody typed them in.

Every operating system has a place

for us to enter these values.

Now over here on this other network,

which is 10.14.6.0,

I'm just gonna draw one computer in here,

and he's gonna be 10.14.6.7.

So let's get some communication going.

Now, if this computer over here, 10.11.12.44,

wants to talk to 10.11.12.222,

what's he's gonna do is he's going to take a look

at the IP address where he is sending it to,

and he's gonna compare it to something called a subnet mask.

This is another value that you have to enter

into your computer.

So a subnet mask usually looks something like this.

255.255.255.0.

Wherever you see a 255,

the numbers have to be the same.

Wherever you see a zero, the numbers can be different.

So let's compare these two addresses.

They're both 10.11.12,

and only the last digit is different, correct?

So by looking at the subnet mask,

that's how your computer calculates this,

he knows something very important.

He knows that that other address is

in his local area network.

That easy.

Just by comparing the address he's sending it to

with his own IP address.

That way he could go ahead

and put on the proper Mac addresses

and just send it right over to that computer.

It's a local call as we say.

Now let's change the story a little bit.

Now we've got a computer over here, 10.14.6.7,

and this computer over here wants to talk to him.

Now, when he takes a look at that address,

which is going to be 10.14.6.7,

you'll see the 10 matches, that's great,

but the next two digits don't match.

This means it's not on his LAN.

Luckily, any computer that's connected

to the internet is part of a network

that also has this router thing connected to it.

And a router is gonna have an IP address

which is part of this network,

and it's usually gonna be 10.11.12,

almost always we call the router 0.1.

It's just etiquette.

It's not a law of physics.

So what will happen is when 44 sees

that he can't talk to this guy directly,

what he does instead is he sends it to 10.11.12.1.

So this computer, this router,

acts kinda like a gateway to the internet.

In fact, that's what we often call this.

We call it the default gateway.

So if you want a computer to be on the internet,

you're, number one, gonna have to give it an IP address.

Number two, you're gonna have to give it a subnet mask.

And number three, you're gonna have to give it

a default gateway.

The subnet mask is only there to let your computer know

if it's a local call or a long distance call.

And if it's a long distance call,

it sends it to the default gateway.

Where do we type in this IP address and subnet mask

and default gateway?

How do I enter it?

Well, you're gonna have to wait for the next episode.