-: Something absolutely amazing is

taking place on your computer

and you probably don't even know it.

The internet has run for decades

using an addressing scheme called IPv4.

So let me show you an example IPv4 address.

Now if you look at this address,

you'll see that we've got four values

that go between well basically one and 254.

So there's four of these values separated by three dots.

So when you look at this value,

every computer that's actually on the internet

must have some kind of IP address.

And these IPv4 addresses have worked for decades

and they've done a great job.

Except for one big problem, we've run out of them.

We have literally don't have

any more of these IPv4 addresses.

So instead we have

a new version of IP coming out called IPv6.

Now with the old IPv4, let's get rid of that mess.

With the old IPv4,

you had a total of 4 billion addresses.

And this is amazing

because when they originally invented IP addressing,

they would say things like,

well, you know we could have up to 12,000 computers

on this new thing called the internet one day.

So they figured if they had

a total of 4 billion addresses that would be plenty

and they were wrong.

So the bottom line is,

is we now live in a world

where we are transitioning from IPv4

into the world of IPv6.

So instead of having address that look like

that old IPv4 address,

they now look something like this.

This is an IPv6 address.

An IPv6 address is distinct

because first of all you'll notice that it's going to have

one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, groups

separated by seven colons.

So this is a physically much more writing there is to do.

Now in terms of the number of addresses we have now,

well it's a lot more than 4 billion, I'll tell you that.

So basically take all the air molecules on Earth

and divide it by about seven.

And that's how many IP addresses we have with IPv6.

So hopefully we won't be running out anytime soon.

So IPv6 provides some real benefits.

Number one, it gives us a greater address space,

but it also gets rid of a lot of old fashioned stuff

and I'll describe those as we get more into IPv6.

But before we go too far,

what I wanna show you is the proper nomenclature for IPv6.

So as we take a look at this address,

first of all you'll notice that

it's got eight groups separated by seven colons,

but you'll notice that this is a lot of writing.

So there's a shorthand

and I want you to be comfortable with this.

So the first thing I want you to be able to do

is take a look at this address.

Now what we're gonna do is get rid of all the leading zeros.

So let's go ahead and write it again,

this time without any leading zeros.

Aha, it's quite a bit shorter now, you see that?

So any place we had four zeros,

it's simply a single zero now.

And instead of having 0001, it's just a 1.

So we can make things a lot easier

by dumping the leading zeros.

Now it can get a little bit cooler than that too.

So do you see where we have three zeros in a row?

What we can do is simply compress all that

and simply replace it with a double colon,

looking something like this.

So when it comes to IPv6 addresses,

it's important to remember that

we can always write this type of shorthand

and make a little bit easier for us

to actually write these addresses.

Okay, now, when we're dealing with IPv6,

in the world of IPv4, you only had one IP address,

in the world of IPv6, that's no longer true.

On today's system, you'll have an absolute minimum of

two separate IP addresses.

One address is known as the link-local address.

Now the link-local address is distinct

because it's always gonna start with fe80

followed by 0000, 0000, 0000.

The last half of the address is

automatically generated by your system itself.

So the link-local address is automatically created.

You boot up a computer, that's IPv6 capable,

it will have a link-local address.

The other address is what we call the global unicast address

or simply the internet address.

The internet address is brought down

from your actual router itself.

The router will send out a broadcast that says

the first half of your address is something

and then your computer

automatically generates the second half.

So you're always going to be having two addresses.

So I've got a window system right here that is IPv6 capable.

Let's go ahead and take a look at IPv6

and let me show you those addresses.

So I'm just gonna run ipconfig.

And if you take a look here,

you'll see number one,

do you see this link- local address that starts with fe80,

and you'll see the double colon

'cause I've got three sets of four zeros in there.

So this is, it's local discussion of that.

You see where it says %3,

that is a Microsoft Windows thing.

Please ignore it.

Also notice that I still have an IPv4 address

so that's still there.

Now if you take a look here,

you're gonna see these are

my internet or global unicast addresses.

Now notice I have one that says this is my IPv6 address,

but you'll also see that those are

temporary addresses in there as well.

As a security feature,

computers will have one main IPv6 address,

but they can,

and this really depends on the operating system,

can spin up temporary addresses.

So if they make one quick connection

to a web server over here, it'll use that address,

or it can make another connection to a FTP server over there

and use a different address.

Or if you're talking on voiceover IP, it makes another one.

So this is all a security feature.

And it really makes IPv6 very secure.

The beautiful part about IPv6,

especially for the exam,

is it's very important that you can recognize

an IPv4 address versus an IPv6 address.

Also keep in mind,

with IPv4 you only have one address

and that's where our subnet mask

becomes so very, very important.

With IPv6, we still have

what's kind of like a subnet address,

but we really just call it a prefix,

which is fixed at what we call WAC 64.

So the first half is always going to be

right where your prefix is.

The nice part about this is that

we need a subnet mask in IPv4 to be able to tell

if we're making a call on my local area network

or if I'm making a long distance call.

But with IPv6, the prefix is simply used

to allow us to talk to upstream routers

to get our data to the places we need it

the very, very quickest.