-: It takes a lot of software and hardware working together to make the internet work. And the challenge we run into is that we have to make stuff that works together that speaks the same language. So we use the term protocol. A protocol is nothing more than a set of rules that allow different things to work together. For example, I don't care if you have a Windows system or a Mac or a little camera running around, they can all use IP addressing because they're all designed to work with the IP protocol. Now, IP is great, but that only gets addresses to individual devices. So we have lots of other protocols. Most of the time when we talk about what the internet is, we use a protocol called TCP/IP, that stands for Transmission Control Protocol/ Internet Protocol. So really what you're showing here, that slash shows that we have two different protocols working together to help get the data between your systems. Now, the reason we call it TCP/IP is because almost all the data that we send on the internet uses the TCP protocol. However, there are a couple others I wanna mention. The other ones are called UDP and ICMP. The best way to understand these three protocols is to use the analogy of me walking into an ice cream shop and I feel in a hankering for some ice cream. So I walk into the ice cream shop. Now I go to this ice cream shop all the time. The ice cream guy behind the counter knows me well. And I'll sit there and go, "Hey, ice cream guy." And he'll go, "Oh, hello, Mike." And we might even shake hands to verify. We're talking to each other, we're maintaining eye contact. And then after I've got that contact, I'll go, "Hey, Bob, how about some of that sarsaparilla?" And Bob will go, "Okay, Mike." And we'll have a communication doing whatever we're gonna do. And then at some point, we'll be finished with the communication. And we'll say, "So long." And he'll say, "So long." That is TCP. TCP is a connection-based protocol, which basically means, if I'm a client, I'm gonna first talk to the server, and I'm gonna go, "Hello, hello." And I'm gonna wait until the server comes back and says, "Yes, I hear you." We create what's known as a handshake. And then we start doing whatever we do. So webpages, Skype conversations, most everything out there uses TCP. But it's not the only way to do stuff. Another one is called UDP. Now, UDP is a connectionless protocol. In essence, what I'm doing now is I'm walking into the ice cream shop, and I walk up and I just kind of go, "Hey, get me a sarsaparilla." I don't say hello to Bob. I don't do anything because I trust that Bob's always on the job and he's always ready for whatever might be coming through. And he's just ready and he'll start making that sarsaparilla without any questions at all. I don't do a handshake, I don't do anything. So that would be an example of UDP. The last one is the strangest one, and it's called ICMP. ICMP is a single packet. It's never more than one packet. TCP can be thousands of packets. UDP can be thousands of packets. But ICMP is always a single packet. The ping command is ICMP, where we just do one ping only, and it goes out and it sends out a ping packet, and it does whatever it needs to do. If we were gonna really call the internet what it should be called, we should have called it the TCP/UDP/ICMP over IP Protocol. But that's a little long. So why don't we just call it TCP/IP? Now, knowing that, some interesting things start to take place. One of the ways we can really start to separate all of these different protocols is by looking at our frames. And we do this a lot. So we use a term called protocol data unit or PDU, which just basically goes, "Look I'm looking at one of these chunks of data, what part am I interested in?" For example, if I'm talking about switches, what I'm interested in is MAC addresses. And in that case, we're gonna be talking about this whole thing, which we call an ethernet frame. Got the idea? Now, once we're in a system and the addresses are no longer interesting to us, most of the time we're just talking about this part of the packet. So in this particular case, what we're talking about is the IP packet. No, I just keep using that word packet all the time. So what we're talking about this PDU, we say the IP packet. So we could even have a complete ethernet frame, but if we're only talking about the IP part that's how we make the separation. So ethernet frame, IP packet. And then once we're actually in our system, then we're down to pretty much just the data. And in this case, this could be TCP, this could be UDP or this could be ICMP. ICMP doesn't have a special name but we would call this the TCP segment or the UDP datagram. It's important that we have three different PDUs in your head. What we're doing is we're talking about different aspects of the chunks of data based on whatever we're interested in at any given moment.