-: If you wanna use DNS on your individual systems

you're gonna have to set it up.

Now, first of all, DNS is provided by your DHCP server.

So if you're using DHCP, well then by golly,

you should already have a DHCP server.

Let's check on this system right here.

To see what my DNS server is I'm gonna run IPconfig

with the /all option.

Now, if I run this, we should see it here.

Here's my DNS servers.

I only have one

and it's a local DNS server that's right here

within my local area network.

Doesn't have to be.

With DHCP, it's actually pretty easy

to set this stuff up.

However, there are situations

where you might wanna statically configure your DNS.

Let's do that right now.

So I'm gonna head once again

over to my network and sharing center.

Click on change adapter settings,

right click on the one I'm interested in.

I'm gonna select properties,

and once again I'm dealing with IPv4.

We hit properties.

Now I want you to look really closely here.

Notice it says "Obtain an IP address automatically"

or we can set that statically

which we've done in other episodes.

Let's leave that as "Obtain an IP address automatically".

But look down here.

Do you see where it says "Obtain DNS server Automatically"?

You can actually choose to set DNS statically,

even though your IP address information comes through DHCP.

Now, normally we'd leave it like this

but let's go ahead and try this for a minute.

So I'm gonna type in my preferred DNS server

which is gonna be my local one.

Now, I wanna use that one because he's actually

resolving stuff within my local area network.

But what else I'd like to show you

is an alternative DNS server.

Let's talk about what I just did there.

DNS is an imperfect tool

and DNS servers go up and they come down.

There's a lot of situations where you're opening up

a web browser and you're typing in something

and it can't get there only because

your DNS connections are a problem.

So there's a couple of tricks we can do.

Number one, manual configuration like this

where I can put in two DNS servers.

I've got my local DNS server, and then I've typed in

one of many, many popular public DNS servers,

8.8.8.8, 8.8.4.4,

these are famous DNS servers.

They're open to anybody who wants to use them.

Those two particular ones come from Google.

There's plenty more.

Keep one in your head at all times.

Anytime you think you might have a DNS problem,

to be able to quickly go to a DNS server

I would hit okay right here and see if I'm working.

That would just tell me that my local DNS server

is down for the moment.

Now, the A+ doesn't expect you to fix DNS servers

but it does expect you to recognize a DNS problem

so you can get on the phone

and call whoever's administrating your DNS server

and say, Hey, man, fix it.

Although, to be honest with you, most of the time

by the time your phone call is already over,

it's already self-repaired.

But be aware that for the exam and for the real world

you need to recognize DNS problems.

So the best DNS problem solver there is

is a tool called NSLookup.

It's built into pretty much all operating systems,

and it's a very powerful tool.

The problem is, is that

it used to give too much information.

So most DNS servers have locked down

against this tool except for some very basic information.

But I only need one question answered.

Is this particular IP address or name

a legitimate DNS server and is it working?

So let's go ahead and run NSLookup.

Now, there's a lot of different ways to run NSLookup.

Now remember, my goal is simply to say

is a particular DNS server a good DNS server?

So if I type NSLookup by itself,

it actually puts it into an interactive mode.

But it already tells me something.

It says, yes, Mike,

your DNS server is 192.168.4.12.

Now, at this point in the old days, I could actually talk

to the DNS server and I could ask him things like

what records are you storing right now?

DNS stores lots of different records.

For example, your regular run of the mill record

is called a A record.

So your www and the IP address, that's an A record.

There's an MX record which is used by mail servers.

So when you're sending mail

it knows how to get to the right spot.

There's CNAMEs.

CNAMEs are, if there's more than one name

for a particular IP address,

you can give it different names.

The problem is, is that it got abused.

And many years ago, pretty much all DNS servers

locked down these queries.

A DNS server is more than glad to say,

yes, I am a functioning DNS server

but don't ask very many more questions

because they're just not gonna answer 'em 98% of the time.

So right now NSLookup is saying, okay,

you're currently configured to use the DNS server

192.168.4.12, all right?

So at this point, I could just type in almost anything.

And because it's a good server,

it goes ahead and gives me the information back.

So right now, because I'm not getting any errors

I know that 192.168.4.12

is a perfectly good DNS server.

Now, we can change this.

If I wanna say, you know what, for a moment

don't use my DNS server, let's pick somebody else.

So here I am with the very popular public

Google DNS server and I can type in

and he resolves no problem as well.

So what I'm gonna do this time is

I'm gonna pick something that is not a functional server.

So we'll pretend that this particular IP address

is my usual server.

So I typed this in, so that's my server

and now I'm gonna try to go anywhere.

And now I'm getting a timeout.

And that is the one thing that NSLookup

can really do for us.

By running NSLookup and picking our particular server

and then we just try to resolve anything,

if I get a timeout, I know that that particular IP address

that I'm trying to use is not a functioning DNS server.

So if I know what my DNS server IP address is

and I have to type it in, or I can type IPconfig /all

and look it up, I go into NSLookup

and I try to use that and I start getting timeouts,

you know the DNS server is down.

So switch to another DNS server

or call up your administrator

and go, Hey man, the DNS server's down.