-: Routers, routers, routers!

Everything I have in front of me right now is a router.

Routers are devices that filter and forward traffic

based on IP addresses.

Routers are the magic tools that we use

to interconnect local area networks.

So let's take a moment

and think about how routers really work.

So I've got one little router here.

Now, this router has two connections.

One of the connections connects to a network

called 192.168.7.0

and he's got a built-in NIC

and his NIC is 192.168.7.1.

The other side will say,

this comes from a internet service provider,

also has an IP address,

but this comes from the internet service provider,

and in this particular example

it's connected to 11.12.13.0 network,

and he's 11.12.13.44.

If we zero in on the router itself,

what we're gonna have,

I'll have my router and here are my two connections

with their IP addresses.

Rule number one,

routers don't care where any packets come from.

So let's say a packet's coming in from the internet

and it's coming in on 11.12.13.44.

The moment that comes in,

your router has built into it,

or you program it in, called a routing table.

The routing table tells the router where to send stuff.

So in this particular example this incoming packet

is designed for the network 192.168.7.0,

so there's a computer in there called 192.168.7.59.

So what's gonna happen here

is he's going to send that out on this particular one.

Equally, I might have a outgoing packet

that's going to something like 44.99.60,

pick any numbers you want.

In that particular case,

all routing tables have what we call a default gateway

and that means if I don't specifically list the network ID,

send it out, and he's 11.12.13.44

is going to be my default gateway

and that's all routers do for a living.

All routers do is look at the destination

on incoming IP packets and sends it out to some other port.

That's their only job.

Now, routers are what make the internet work.

Without routers, we wouldn't have a way

to separate all of our different local area networks

and we'd have a mess.

Speaking of messes,

look what I have in front of me right now.

Every single one of these boxes is a router

but we have to be careful

because we have very much an enterprise type router

versus a small office, home office router.

So if we take a look back here, for starters,

what I've got is a beast of an old

and I mean old router here,

and I want you to take a look right there.

Do you see those two yellow connections?

These are the only two connections it has.

It's a two-connection router.

Now take a look at this little beastie right here.

This router has five connections.

If I wanted to, I could connect this

to five totally different local area networks.

I could set it up to four local area networks

and one to an internet service provider.

So don't let size fool ya.

Routers are going to have lots of different power

based on their size.

The problem we run into is that,

especially in small office and home office scenarios,

we tend to combine routers with other devices.

So take a look at this fella right here.

Ignore that blue connection,

it's the yellow ones that I'm interested in.

This is a two-port router.

One port goes out to what it calls the WAN

or the, yeah, the WAN.

And then it has a built-in four port switch.

So this is really a router, a two-port router,

and a four-port switch built in.

When we get into smaller offices and home offices,

this is more common than anything else.

So let's take a look at this.

This is an older router, still works great, by the way.

Take a look at this guy.

So this is again, a two-port router with a four-port switch.

What's also interesting is not only is this a router,

not only is this a switch,

but it's also a wireless access point

all built into one little box.

There's nothing wrong with that.

The danger that we run into,

especially when we start configuring these things,

is you start messing with wireless stuff

and things like that,

and you go, oh, all routers have wireless.

No, no, no.

The home ones that you're gonna be seeing on the A+ do.

But in an enterprise, if you need wireless,

you get wireless access points.

If you need a router, you get a router.

Now, this other one I wanna show you real quick.

On this particular router,

we have one connection to our local area network

that'll plug into a switch

and then the upstream connection is using DOCSIS.

That's cable modem.

That's the other real power of our routers.

Routers don't really care about their connections.

You can connect to them using ethernet,

you can connect to them using cable modem DOCSIS

You can connect to them using

all kinds of other types of bizarre connections.

It will always keep that IP packet in good shape.

Okay, now that we're comfortable

with the fact that there's gonna be different ways

to get to it,

trust me when I tell you,

you're gonna have to go into a router

and you're gonna have to do some configuration.

Configuring routers can be a real challenge sometime.

I wanna go back and take a look at this guy one more time.

You see that port right there?

That's what we call a console port.

A console port is actually a serial port

using the RS-232 language to act as a connection.

So take a look at this.

So to configure this guy, I plug one into the console port,

and this one gets plugged into a laptop

or whatever I might have.

And once I plug in, I'll use some type of terminal program.

And this terminal program PuTTY is a very common one

will actually allow us to talk to the router.

This is often done for initial configuration.

So here's an example of a scary looking terminal connection

that I have to a router.

Yeah, it's pretty interesting language.

What you're looking at there is called the Cisco IOS,

and if you wanna learn more about that,

start taking some Cisco courses.

I just wanna make sure you know what a router is.

So this is one way we can connect.

And by the way, this little connection right here,

let's make sure we know that guy,

that is a DB-9 connector.

So you're either gonna see,

I know that looks like an RJ-45.

I mean technically it is RJ-45, but they've stolen it,

and they use it as this type of serial connection.

This is a very common way

to connect on these types of boxes.

Here I've got a picture of a number of different boxes.

These are all using console ports.

Notice some of them look like RJ-45s

and some of them look like DB-9s.

The bottom line is for me to communicate with these,

I'm gonna grab some kind of cable,

I'm gonna plug it on one end,

gonna plug the other end into a laptop,

and I'm gonna use some type of terminal program

to get the initial configuration.

By the way, this blue cable, it's almost always blue,

it's called a Yost cable, Yost or Rollover.

Those terms are interchangeable.

It's got a DB-9 on one end

and it's got that RJ-45 looking connector.

These were made famous by Cisco Corporation

although a lot of other boxes use these as well.

Luckily for us, in a small office, home office environment,

the primary way that we connect to a device

is through a web interface.

So I've got this box right here.

Now, this is a very classic small office, home office router

four-port switch,

and you can tell by the antennas,

this is also a wireless access point.

So what I wanna do is plug in and connect to this.

When I initially make a connection to these devices,

number one, it's going to probably be passing out

via DHCP a DHCP range.

So that means it's probably gonna be,

these are pretty common.

It'll be 192.168.1.1, 192.168.0.1

and it'll be passing out to any computer

that hooks on the land side,

on the yellow connection side,

it'll go ahead and send out a DHCP

for the individual devices.

The other thing it's gonna have

is a default username and password.

It's really, really important

that whenever you plug any of these devices in,

probably about the first thing you do

is change the default username and password.

So what I've got set up right now is I went ahead

and plugged this home router

into the back of my computer right here.

Now, I'm not on the internet or anything.

I don't need to be on the internet.

I just need to be talking to the router itself.

Let's make sure we can get some good communication

going with this router.

So the first thing I'm gonna do is I'm gonna run ipconfig.

Now you'll see that I get a 192.168.0 address.

That's really, really important.

If I was getting an APIPA address,

a 169.254 address,

I know automatically that this router

is not passing out DHCP.

And I'm gonna go into the user's manual

and I'm going to find out what his default IP address is.

Then I'm gonna go into my system

and statically set an IP address that matches his range.

If I were to go in, I would see it does 192.168.0.1.

That's how it comes from the factory.

And if I wanted to, I would go into my system

and statically type in 192.168.0. anything but one,

and then I would be able to access this.

The fact that I'm seeing, I'm getting a 192.168.0 address

tells me that this is a DHCP server

and he's passing me out a legit address.

That's important.

So let's take another peak here.

So the default gateway is 192.168.0.1.

The default gateway is your router.

The default gateway is your router.

The default gateway is your router.

Knowing that, I could just come into a browser,

yeah, I'm not on the internet, who cares?

Watch this.

And I am now talking to this particular router.

Now, normally I would go ahead

and just type in the default username and password

but I already changed it because I'm a clever guy

and I'm now into the router configuration itself.

When it comes to that initial connection with your router,

remember, it's well-documented.

It's gonna have a default IP address.

It's gonna have a default username and password.

If you wanna keep the default IP address,

it's on your land side, who cares?

But you definitely wanna change the username and password.

Also, keep in mind, with a lot of these routers

they're going to try to set up your wireless.

They're gonna try to do all kinds of extra configuration.

A lot of people find that convenient.

I personally find it wildly irritating.

It's a matter of personal choice.

And as we go, we're gonna be looking at a lot of routers

in these episodes.

You're gonna see where sometimes it's convenient

and sometimes it isn't.

What we wanna talk about for these episodes though

are what are the router configuration issues?

So I'm gonna ignore wireless

and things like that just for a little bit.