-: I've went ahead and plugged in my little home router.

I've got one connection

that's going out to my internet service provider,

I've got a little cable modem I plug into.

And on the other end,

I've just plugged it in the back of my computer.

The most dangerous part about SOHO routers is

that they're designed to pretty much work outta the box.

If you plug them in the right way,

you will get the internet,

and that is what I call a bad thing,

because there's a lot of security

and configuration issues we need to be dealing with,

and that's really what I wanna talk about right now.

So first of all,

take a look at this screen right here on my computer.

So what you're looking at is the,

what they call a Status screen.

Pretty much all these little routers have this.

Notice that there's a check mark next to the Internet.

It's letting me know that it's on the internet.

This is the connection up to my WAN, okay.

And then, here's my internal connection

for my particular system.

This is just one kind of web interface.

At home,

I've got native gigabit ethernet coming into my house,

and that's through AT&T,

and here's a picture of what that web interface looks like.

The bottom line is,

don't panic about these interfaces.

They all look different,

but they really say the same thing.

You've just gotta take your time

and poke around in these interfaces

to find any one particular item.

So, for example,

the big thing I'm always interested

in is the WAN connection itself.

Let's see if we can figure out

where that is on this computer.

So, I'm guessing it's under Network.

Here we go, Internet,

sounds like a good guess.

So what you're looking at here is

how do you configure your connection up to your ISP?

Now, notice it says Dynamic IP,

because actually most routers are DHCP clients.

That's right.

On the connection up to your cable, modem,

or whatever you're using upstream,

it's a DHCP client,

just like your Windows computer.

So, we can set it as Dynamic IP

or if your ISP requires it,

you can set it as Static IP,

but your ISP would have to be giving you particular settings

to type in here.

Some of these other ones we're gonna be seeing

in other episodes,

so I'm gonna skip those for right now,

but Dynamic and Static are the big ones.

Most of the time you're gonna set it to Dynamic

and you're just gonna leave it there.

On the LAN side,

this is a matter of personal choice.

I like to change my internal network ID

from whatever the default is to something else.

So for example,

here's one I like to do,

10.11.12.1.

So what I'm doing here is I'm giving the router itself

on the LAN side,

the IP address of 10.11.12.1,

and I'm gonna go ahead and hit save.

It's gonna take a moment,

but he's gonna go ahead

and reset his own IP address to 10.11.12,

and then he's gonna reset,

remember, he's a built-in DHCP server,

he's gonna take care of all that for me too.

Let's give the reboot a moment

and we'll show you exactly what I'm talking about.

Okay, first of all,

look, we've rebooted.

and you'll see that I'm now connecting to 10.11.12.1,

which is actually fascinating

because watch what happens

when I type ipconfig.

Not only did he change himself to 10.11.12.1,

he reset his DHCP server

and started passing out 10.11.12. whatever's.

So, this computer is now 10.11.12.120.

You gotta be careful

when you're setting the LAN side of a SOHO router

to a different network ID.

This particular one is very well behaved

and automatically allowed me to reconnect.

Now, imagine if I did that

and I had myself set statically to 192, 168, 0.,

anything but 1.

In that case, the moment I made that change,

I would be disconnected

and I would have to go back into my network card settings

on my machine and change it to 10.11.12.,

anything but 1 just so I could reconnect.

But most of these home routers are

pretty well behaved these days.

Okay, so now I've got a nice reboot.

Now, this is something you got,

this happens on a lot of these home routers.

There's a Quick Setup,

which is basically a guided tour,

and it's gonna make you change your default password

and set up your wireless and all that stuff.

Then there's a Basic.

And then where I like to hang out is here at Advanced,

so make sure you're aware of these differences.

Not all home routers have them, but most do.

Okay, so what I wanna take a look at now is,

I believe it's under system tools here.

Where did it go?

There it is.

So, here's DHCP Server.

So, here I can either turn on or turn off the DHCP server,

and if I'm gonna be a DHCP server,

I have to say what addresses do you want me to pass out.

So, he's gonna be passing out by default,

everything from 10.11.12.100 to 10.11.12.199,

which means I could have

up to a hundred computers connect to this guy.

So, one of the things I like

to do is cut this number down a little bit.

Now, the next thing is Lease Time.

That is how long will a particular lease be given out

to a computer.

So, right now, it's set to two hours.

A lot of people like a much bigger number.

Basically, if you have desktops,

they like bigger numbers.

If you have lots of phones

that are coming in and out of your network,

they like smaller numbers.

So, when in doubt, leave it as defaults.

Now, if you need to pass out other DHCP information,

here's where you do it.

So, here's where you give it a Default Gateway.

Notice that the primary DNS and secondary DNS are blank

and there's a reason for that.

Almost all of these home routers are DHCP clients

to whoever they're upstream to.

So, if they're upstream,

that means whoever is upstream is giving them an IP address,

it's giving them a default gateway,

it's giving them a subnet mask,

and it's also giving them DNS information.

Pretty much all of these home routers are simply going

to pass whatever they're given for DNS,

they're gonna pass that down to your individual systems,

and that tends to work out really, really well.

However, if for example,

we didn't want people

to be using the default ISP DNS server,

right here, I could type in something like 8.8.8.8,

and then it would pass out 8.8.8.8

to all the individual clients.

When in doubt, just leave it at blank

and it'll use the ISPs DNS.

Okay, let's play with DHCP a little bit more.

So, here are my DHCP reservations.

A DHCP reservation simply means,

look, I've got a range of addresses

that I'm passing out and let's say,

for example I had a camera or something like that

that I already had preset to 10.11.12.100.

So, you'll see that's in there.

By making a reservation,

what we're saying is I want to not pass out one

of the addresses within the pool.

Now, personally, I think it's not a good idea to do this

but it's on there,

so let's go ahead and talk about that.

So we can Add one.

So, if I wanted to add this computer alone,

I could just type in the MAC Address right here,

then type in the IP Address,

and then some kind of Description.

In my opinion,

DHCP reservations are a mistake.

You've got the entire 10.11.12 network ID in this example.

So, if you're going to set up a DHCP pool

of 10.11.12.100 to 10.11.12.120, say,

why in the world would you reserve one or two addresses

within that range?

Look, there's some rule sets

that actually make your life a little bit easier here.

For example, most everybody always uses .1

for the router itself.

It's not a law of physics,

it just makes life easier.

Then you save all of your single digit addresses

for things that you wanna give fixed IP addresses to.

For example, maybe you have a file server

and you don't want the IP address to change,

maybe you've got a camera configured

and you don't want the IP address to change,

so save 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 for stuff that's static.

Then you could go ahead and not worry about having

to put a reservation in there

because you're keeping it outside of the pool size anyway.

Get the idea?

But at least you know what a reservation is.

Alright, now there's a few more housekeeping things

that I'm gonna be doing very early on

when I'm first playing with a router.

Let's play with some of the administrative tools.

On this particular one,

I'm gonna click on System Tools.

Now, there's a lot of stuff in here

that could be really important.

Number one, Time Settings,

making sure you have the right time, and invariably,

you can use Network Time Protocol, NTP servers,

and just say, get it automatically

and it'll take care of that stuff for you.

If you think you have a problem,

Diagnostics can be handy.

Firmware Upgrades.

I can't tell you how many times I've had some router

that just needed some kind of firmware upgrade

to take care of a problem.

Usually on these routers,

you're gonna have to go,

in this case to the TP-Link's website,

type in the model of this particular router,

and see if there's a new one,

download it and then upgrade it.

A lot of these routers will have

an automatic process right here

where they'll go out and check to see

if there's a firmware upgrade,

and then see if you wanna install it or not.

The other big one is Administration.

Here's where you type in new usernames and passwords.

That's critical.

But while you're at it,

here's another one that'll get you in trouble.

Local Management.

Look, this thing is a web server,

so, if you've got its IP address and a web browser

and you're connected to it,

you can talk to it.

So, you don't want people getting

into these configuration screens.

So, you can either set up how they can get to it

from the local area network within the network

or you can set up remote management

where they can get it from anywhere on the internet.

Let's talk about those.

So, Local Management basically says,

right now, it says

if you can connect on the LAN

and you know the router's IP address,

you can get to it.

If I turn this off,

what I can do is fix it

so that maybe only this computer,

it'll filter by MAC address,

so that only this computer can ever get to this screen.

Anybody else in the LAN who tries,

they'll just be blocked.

(mouse ticking)

Remote Management is how you get to it from the WAN side.

By default, these are disabled.

However, you can enable Remote Management.

You can use a different port number.

For example, HTTP is port 80

but I could type in 8181 here.

So, now if I know what my wan IP address is,

I can type in the WAN IP address

and then, you're ready,

:8181,

and hit enter,

and then that way I could get to this configuration screen.

I'm gonna tell you right now,

turning on remote management is just

about the most unsmart thing you can do as a technician.

To be able to have somebody

who can remotely get into your router settings is not smart.

So, when it comes to my opinion,

just disable remote management

and if you need to configure the router,

go over to the router, get on the LAN,

and do the configurations that you need.