-: IP config slash release?

What?

IP config?

-: Space, slash, release.

-: Slash release?

-: Having a DHCP problem there?

-: I think so.

(Mike chuckles)

-: So, may I ask why you're doing this?

-: The Internet's down.

-: Ah, okay.

In this episode, what I wanna talk about

is CompTIA's troubleshooting theory.

It's a series of steps that I as a technician,

can go through to help my users deal

with whatever problems they might have.

Now, I'm personally not a huge fan

of this particular theory.

Not that it's wrong,

but there's a lot of different opinions on this.

But CompTIA does stress this,

and you're gonna see it on the exam.

So let's go through these steps to help me as a technician,

help my users get back online.

Now, before we do anything with this troubleshooting theory,

the most important thing you need to remember is that

if I'm within an organization, there might be procedures

or there might be policies that the organization says

maybe she shouldn't even be trying to type that command.

Or maybe she needs to be making a particular phone call

to a particular IT group.

Or maybe I'm not in your IT group

or there's always all kinds of rules.

Okay? -: Okay.

-: So before I wanna dive into this as a tech,

the first thing I'm going to do is make sure that I'm

within whatever organization's, policies and procedures

whatever they might have, so that I don't get into trouble.

And I'm really good at getting into trouble.

(Robin laughs)

I always wanna fix everybody's computer.

You know, a big S.

You know, here, let me help.

All right.

So anyway, the first step that I'm gonna be doing

is identifying the problem.

And what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna talk to the user.

I'm gonna ask, you know, "What is the problem?"

at least how they anticipate that problem to look.

I'm gonna be talking to her about anything she

might have been doing lately that could have led up to this.

There could be environmental issues.

The air conditioners going down can do evil things.

So, I mean, there's all kinds of situations

where this initial situation

where I'm attempting to identify the problem.

Understand, I'm identifying the problem,

I'm not saying what's broken.

I'm just identifying the problem.

So what's the problem?

-: The internet is down.

-: All right.

First of all, I assure you the Internet's not down.

It's running all over the place.

People are buying stuff on eBay and they're, you know,

playing games and they're doing all kinds of stuff.

The problem you have is your connection

between this laptop and the Internet's down,

and that's what we need to be dealing with.

-: Okay.

-: So one of the things I'm gonna do is take a quick look

at the system and verify it.

When she says she's down, she probably means

that the browser isn't working

or she's maybe getting 404 or even worse than that.

So I'm gonna be taking a look at this.

I might review some system logs if that's applicable

to try to find some situation that helps define

what's the problem.

Because her opinion of the problem and my opinion

of the problem are very, very different things.

Okay?

So based on this,

I'm gonna take a look at a few things.

When was the last time this computer got on the internet?

-: Just a couple of hours ago.

-: Okay.

And were you doing anything or?

-: I was just doing my research.

I have all of this work to do,

and then it just stopped working.

-: I know.

You got a big mess around here.

You've been out on that sales call for the last week or so.

-: Exactly.

-: You just got back in.

When's your flight get in?

-: It just got in earlier this morning.

-: Okay, so it was working

up until you got back in the office?

-: Exactly. -: All right.

So this has given me some idea of what might be taking place

within the user's experience that might gimme some ideas.

The chances are that there's some kind of configuration

or setup issue where she was running to where she is now.

I'm not gonna be worried about network cards being down

or everybody else around here is on the internet

so I'm not gonna worry about anything around here.

There's something between her machine

and our internet that's causing the problem.

So I'm gonna do a little bit of research here

and I'm gonna try to get some ideas.

So when you type that IP config slash release,

did anything happen at all?

-: No. -: Okay.

All right.

So now I'm getting a little bit worried about things

and I'm gonna take a look.

And again, externally,

everybody else is also on the network,

so I'm gonna be zeroing in on her system itself.

So I'm gonna be thinking to myself,

"Hmm, I'll bet there's a problem with the way she's set up."

The number two thing that I'm gonna do

is I'm gonna come up with a probable cause.

And in this situation, my probable cause is

is somehow there's something on her system

that's down network-wise.

So I'm gonna be checking the network card,

be checking her wireless settings, all that type of stuff.

And I'm gonna go in and take a look.

So on this particular system,

I would just go in and make a few clicks

and I can actually see a little clue here.

It's already telling me what the problem is.

And what I'm thinking to myself is

because I see a little airplane on your task bar,

I'm thinking she's in airplane mode.

You were in the airplane, right?

-: I was.

-: Were you using the laptop on the plane?

-: I was.

-: And when the stewardess told you to turn off,

you were a good flyer and turned it off, right?

-: Yes. -: Okay.

Yeah, I've never done this,

so I can be really, really judgemental

(both laugh) about this type of stuff.

Alright, so I'm gonna go ahead and test this

by taking it out of airplane mode,

which is pretty trivial on this guy.

All right?

And all of a sudden, it went from a airplane

and now you see what looks like a wireless connection.

-: Exactly.

-: So I'm gonna go ahead and test that.

Probably test it is just open up Google

and see if I'm magically on, okay?

But the important thing is, is if I'm not right,

what I'm gonna do is

I'm gonna go right back in and go, "Hmm,"

and then try something else.

And this is always the tricky part where it's like,

okay, I know what the problem is,

you can't get on the internet.

But, you know, I have to go through

sometimes a few iterations.

Now, I'm Mike Myers, popular author and alpha geek.

So you know, I'm really, really good at this stuff.

Do you believe that?

-: I do. -: Good.

Hey, good (indistinct)

(Robin laughs)

Mr. Vice President.

Well done.

Alright.

Now, the other problem is, is at this point,

a lot of times maybe I can't come up with the answer.

And in those situations,

there's never a problem to escalate.

And when we say escalate, that means calling in some help.

And every IT nerd has got somebody

who they can go up one click to

who can actually give them a little help.

Maybe it's picking up the phone and having a buddy remind me

of something else I need to look at.

We really take our time and try to come up

with theories that actually come up

and determine the cause.

So the next thing I'm gonna do is I'm gonna say,

I'm going to establish a plan of action

and I'm gonna go ahead and resolve this problem.

Now, the challenge here is something as simple as this,

I've kind already fixed it, haven't I?

-: You did.

Thank you. -: Yeah, so a lot of times,

part three and part four kind of are the same step,

especially for smaller problems.

But if this was a bigger problem,

say malware was found on your system,

now I realize that my solution

isn't just fixing your machine,

but there might be six or seven other machines

on the network that are messed up.

And in that case,

I've gotta deal with a much bigger plan of action

than simply hitting a toggle button on your laptop.

Okay.

So in theory, I have fixed the problem.

So the next step is that we have to verify

full functionality.

And this is a big problem that technicians run into

because I'll be looking at this and I'll go,

"Oh, okay, so you're on.

"Okay, bye, later."

(Robin laughs)

Well, that's not right.

I have to wait until Robin is satisfied about my repair.

I know that she was in airplane mode,

but as far as she's concerned, the internet was down.

And until such time as you could sit there and go,

"Mike, I am happy with the results,"

and you're Googling away and just having a good old time,

I stay right here until we've got to that point.

So would you feel that everything's okay?

-: Yes.

Can I test it?

-: Sure, go ahead. -: Okay.

I'm up. -: All right.

Pretty snappy internet around here, huh?

-: Yes, thank you.

-: Yeah, so the Internet's up.

Yay.

(Robin laughs) Okay.

So the other thing we wanna do as part of this step is

that we wanna implement preventative measures.

Now, again, this one's not so too terrible here.

Here's my preventative measure,

Robin, remember to turn it back off of airplane mode

when you get in the office.

-: Okay. (laughs) -: All right?

Actually, most preventative measures manifest that way,

but something more serious could end up

being documentation or an escalation issue.

This could define new policies for the company,

all kinds of stuff like that.

So when we talk about preventative,

it could be very casual or it can be very, very formal.

-: Okay. -: Alright.

So we're all happy and everything?

-: Yes. -: All right.

-: Thank you so much. -: You're very welcome.

All right.

Now the last step really depends on your organization,

but it's documentation.

Documentation is really, really important

because number one,

we have something called lessons learned.

And what we can do as an IT support group,

come up with lessons that we've learned

from stuff like this,

be sure to tell all the salespeople

to get out of airplane mode

when they get back in the office,

or it can be a little bit more serious

in terms of defining issues with bugs in an operating system

or something that could have a much higher impact.

And we need to do this documentation

not really just for us,

but for the next person in line

who's gonna run into the exact same problem

because that's a big issue for us as techs.

I've never run into a problem that no one else has run into.

So the magic is if I could be somehow

magically standing next to that tech

who's already had that problem,

well, then we're looking in great shape.

And that's where documentation comes into play.

I need to warn you for the exam

that CompTIA loves the troubleshooting theory

and you need to be careful with this because on the exam,

you will need to understand all these steps.

And you need to understand their order as well,

because you will see it on the exam.