-: Yes, my friends.

Once again, the great Mikestrami me comes along

to help answer questions on the A+

that have to do with wired networking scenarios.

So, you guys ready?

Here we go.

Now, keep in mind we're talking about wired scenarios.

We have other episodes in this series that cover wireless.

So, here we go.

Number one, no connectivity.

Hmm, okay, I'm not sure what no connectivity really means.

Basically that means you can't get

to whatever resource you wanna get to.

So if that's the case, the big thing we're gonna look

at first of all is are you physically connected?

Is your patch cable plugged into the back of your computer?

Do you have good link lights?

Are you sure you're working out okay?

If you are, then the other thing you need to be looking at

is your IP addressing.

Now keep in mind, if you're a DHCP client,

then this should be a non-issue.

However, if you have static devices in your network,

there is a possibility that you'll have IP conflicts.

Literally two devices with the exact same IP address.

Now, fascinatingly enough, a lot of times

that doesn't prevent you from communicating,

but it can cause some real problems.

And the nice part is, is that all operating systems

will put up a big error screen that says,

"I see an IP conflict."

And then you have to go about diagnosing who the bad guy is.

And that brings up a big point.

On the CompTIA exams, you're gonna be seeing

a lot of networking questions, so be ready for 'em.

And they tend to be big, long questions

and they'd drag there on and on and on.

The reality is is the entire question

is almost invariably broken down

into one little sentence or one little phrase

and you gotta cut all that other goo out

before you can get to the simple answer

that's gonna take place with all these CompTIA questions.

Okay.

So, no connectivity.

The big thing I'm gonna be looking at, checking your cable,

and then I'm gonna be verifying the IP address.

And remember, ping is your friend.

Just ping by IP address

or you can ping by the name of the computer

and you should be able to see your system.

If you can't ping, usually the thing you're gonna be doing

is getting on the phone, calling your buddy going,

"What's your IP address?"

And trying to figure it out from there.

Limited connectivity.

Now, I'm pretty sure what CompTIA means

by limited connectivity is that some stuff I can get to

and some stuff I can't.

Now, this is a real DHCP screamer right there.

In particular watch for APIPA addresses.

If you start seeing that you've got a 169.254 address

when you run IP config, there's a problem

with your DHCP server.

Also, keep in mind that there's another real scary one.

Let's say you know that your network ID is 192.168.4

and that's what yours always should be.

And then, one day you get on and it's 1 92.168.7.

That is a scary error.

That could mean that you have what's known

as a Rogue DHCP server.

Somebody else has plugged a DHCP server in

and is passing out bad information.

Rogue DHCP servers simply mean you've gotta trace

and find whatever box is doing that.

It could be a real challenge.

The next one is intermittent connectivity.

Intermittent connectivity is rare in a wired network.

Often what you're talking about in this case

is that you've got some kind of problem

with the actual cabling itself.

Somebody's put a piece of cable

next to an elevator or something like that.

Or there is a particular motor that runs at certain times.

In that case you're talking about interference problems

and there's nothing you can do other than move the cable.

The other one and the one we tend to see more of

is there are resources that I can normally get to

that right now I can't get to.

If there is a resource out there

that you're having problems with,

and let's talk folders 'cause that's always the big one.

I used to get to this folder all the time and now I can't.

Well, first of all, can you get to the system itself?

If you can get to the system, try pinging it,

then you might have a problem

with the actual shared resource itself.

Keep in mind that it's not that hard between NTFS

or network share permissions to simply unplug you

from a resource that you've always gotten in the past.

The last one is going to be slow transfer speeds.

Slow transfer speeds to me

is really more of a wireless issue,

but it can show up in a wired network.

Most of the time if you're seeing something like that,

it's time for you to be firing up Task Manager

and taking a look at how hard your network card

is being used.

If it's really spiking up, you need to go down

and go through the processes that are eating up

your network bandwidth and take 'em out.

You might have to go ahead and update your Steam Games

at another time and then that way your work

can get done at any given moment.

And also remember,

this is where QoS settings can really be handy.

If you've got critical stuff and it's running slow,

take advantage of QoS and set your router or your switch

to give you higher priority for the QoS stuff

that's important to you.