-: Let's face it, kids.

We live in a wireless world.

Our phones are wireless.

Our laptops are wireless,

even desktop systems are wireless.

Our Google home is wireless.

Some cameras are wireless.

Wireless, wireless, wireless.

We live in a wireless world,

well actually we don't.

Well, it is wireless, but it is a very specific

standard known as the IEEE 802.11 standard.

This standard's been around now for about 20 years,

and it is the primary way all of our wireless stuff talks.

There's other standards, but 802.11 is the king.

Now, there's lots of versions of 802.11, it's 20 years old.

So, you'll hear things like, 802.11B, and G and AC,

and we'll talk about that in another episode.

But for right now, it doesn't matter what standard

of 802.11 you have, there are certain things

that are common to all of them.

And the big thing and the most common thing,

is this guy right here.

This is a wireless access point.

A wireless access point is nothing more than a bridge

between, if we take a look over here,

this is an Ethernet connection.

And this device acts as a bridge

between an Ethernet network and

a wireless 802.11 network.

So WAPs are really, really critical in order

for us to be able to take advantage of 802.11.

Now you gotta be careful here because in today's

universe we have lots of these home routers,

like this beast right here in front of me.

Now if you take a look at this,

he's got antennas, might be a clue it's wireless.

Yep, it is.

But, I want you to take a look at the business end

of these two guys.

So, notice that I've got lots of connectors

in the back here.

A WAP, a true WAP, and the only thing that white

thing does is acts as a wireless access point,

is only gonna have one Ethernet connection.

This is a home router.

It's a built-in router.

It's a built-in switch, and it's a wireless access point.

It's 3, 3, 3 devices in one.

So, you always wanna be careful with that.

I use the term WAP a lot when I'm talking about wireless.

If I'm playing with one of these and I use the term WAP,

I just mean the wireless functions within this device.

Are we okay with that?

Great, okay.

So, we have two different kinds of modes that we work

within the 802.11 world.

If you have a wireless access point,

or two or three or four,

we are in what's known as infrastructure mode.

Infrastructure mode is the most common way

that we do 802.11.

And if you've ever looked around

at your work or at your school

or at your place of worship or at your local coffee shop,

if you ever actually look around the walls,

and if you're a nerd you do.

You probably see wireless access points all around.

And those are what are providing you your connection

to your internet.

But there's another way to do it.

Because there's another part that comes into play.

Great, if you have a wireless access point.

But the other thing you're gonna need is

a wireless network card.

And I've got a bunch of them here.

So, this is a very old fashioned wireless network card.

Where I would actually snap the card in.

And then I've got this humongous antenna.

You guys wanna take a peek at that?

So you can see that it's a PCI express connection.

Snap this in.

Yes, it needs drivers and all that stuff.

And those are still used,

there's nothing wrong with that.

But today we're seeing, like for example,

look at this motherboard.

So, you'll see that this motherboard has a built-in NIC.

It even has a cute little antenna here.

So, this is all built-in and it has drivers that come

with a driver's disc for the motherboard itself.

You'll even run into stuff like this.

For example, this is just a USB to 802.11, wireless NIC.

So, I just plug that in and I get a wireless that way.

My laptop here.

In fact, gosh, it'd be hard-pressed to find a laptop

that doesn't have built-in wireless anymore.

What's interesting on laptops is in almost all cases

the antenna for the wireless network card is actually

in the monitor itself.

That's important for the A+.

And certainly last, but not least,

is all of our mobile devices,

all of our tablets, all of our smartphones,

all have 802.11 network cards built into them.

And the antenna is pretty much the entire case

on most of these things.

So, you're always gonna have a wireless access point

and then you're always gonna have a NIC.

The wireless access point will be configured,

and we're gonna be doing this in other episodes,

to set-up what's known as a service set identifier.

And anybody, you've ever tried to look

for the wireless networks and all those

different names you'll see?

Those are the different SSIDs that are out there

for you to connect to.

And then your individual NICs will then connect to it

through their client software.

So, that's infrastructure mode.

But, there is another way.

It's rare, I don't wanna say terribly rare,

but more rare, and it's called ad hoc mode.

With ad hoc mode, there is no wireless access point.

You just have a bunch of NICs.

So, a bunch of guys with laptops, for example.

And one person can say,

"I want to set up a wireless ad hoc network."

And you could do this in every operating system.

Not done very often, but you can do it.

And you can say, "I am going to set up a

wireless network".

And then all the other computers will treat your system,

kind of like a wireless access point.

So, ad hoc mode is handy if you wanna get a bunch

of computers hooked together at 32,000 feet

on a Southwest Airlines flight to play Counter-Strike.

Would be one example that I've been known to do myself.

So, there are these two different ways.

So, infrastructure mode means you absolutely

must have a wireless access point.

And then ad hoc mode means no wireless access point.

One of the clients has to pretend to be the boss,

and set that up for you.

Now the other thing that comes into play

with 802.11, are antennas.

Antennas are absolutely critical in terms

of how we get the signal around.

So, I wanna take a moment and talk about

the different types of signals.

Now, there's basically three types of antennas out there.

There is an omnidirectional, there is a patch,

and then there is a highly directional.

So, with an omnidirectional,

now, I'm gonna pretend for a minute that this is an omni.

Omnidirectional is like the antennas that

you see on automobiles.

It's just one piece of metal that sticks up.

Omnidirectional is distinct that

because the radiation pattern looks like a big fuzzy ball.

And the more power you put to the antenna

the larger this fuzzy ball gets.

Now, omnidirectional works fine,

there's nothing wrong with it,

but think about what a big fuzzy ball does for you,

if say you're like on one floor of an office.

A lot of times that type of fuzzy ball

signal propagation, isn't what we want.

So, what we tend to turn to is something like this.

This is really a dipole antenna.

What you're looking at are two omnidirectional

antennas that are pointing exactly opposite of each other.

Now, if you look at this, you go,

well, Mike, this looks like an omnidirectional.

Just one thing sticking up.

But it's really not.

At the midpoint here, there's another antenna

pointing straight down.

Dipole antennas create a very interesting signal

that's very useful for wireless.

It basically looks like somebody

took a donut and stomped it.

So, you get a big flat circular signal,

which is absolutely perfect, like for example,

if you're on the highway,

or if you're on one floor of an office,

or if you're in a park.

Things like that where you just need a big signal going out.

You don't wanna propagate up into space

or down into the dirt.

So, dipoles are very, very popular.

On this system right here, I got three dipoles.

Now, there are some other situations that come into play.

Another one is what we call patch.

Now, a patch antenna,

and I've got one right here.

So, a patch antenna is always gonna have

this flat look to it.

And the idea behind a patch is that

the radiation signal is going to be a big fuzzy ball,

but only half of one.

So, if you're against a wall and you wanna propagate

in one direction, but you don't want it going out

the back, patches are extremely popular ways

to get that type of coverage.

The last type is what I call highly directional.

And I've got one example right here.

This is a Yagi antenna.

So, a Yagi antenna is designed,

is anybody old out there who remembers when antennas

for your TV were? No?

Okay, well, it was the television of your forefathers.

Anyway, these are highly directional.

And their propagation signal looks like,

well take a football, an American football,

and stretch it out really, really, really long.

So, that type of signal, which is also known

as a Fresnel lens.

Is really good for shooting really long distances.

So, a lot of times if you're using a highly

directional antenna, you probably have another

highly directional antenna pointing back at it.

So, for really long throws for 802.11,

these are very popular.

There's another version, I don't have one on me,

so I'll just show a picture to you.

And that is what we call a parabolic.

So, parabolic antennas are another alternative

for very, very long, highly directional throws.

So, make sure you're comfortable with these 802.11 basics.

We have two modes.

Infrastructure, which means you will be

using a wireless access point.

And ad hoc, which means you will not be

using a wireless access point.

Also, keep in mind is that if you have a WAP

you're also gonna have to have some network card

which connects to an SSID.

Which, we'll configure on our wireless access points.

And also keep in mind is that there are

lots of antennas out there.

There are directional antennas, like a Yagi and a parabolic.

There's patch, which is kind of unique unto itself.

And then there's going to be omnis and dipoles,

when you need to cover a really broad area.