-: Setting up a wireless network

in an enterprise environment is very different

but also very much the same

as it would be within a small office or a home office.

You still have SSIDs, you still have encryption, WPA,

WPA2, none of that stuff changes.

The bands are there, the versions of 802.11 are there

but it gets a little bit bigger.

One of the big differences we have

in an enterprise environment

versus a small office home office is we tend to

use dedicated wireless access points.

These are real WAPs.

These are not routers, they're not switches,

all they are or wireless access points.

And we tend to have lots and lots

of these wireless access points laying around.

Now, if you've ever looked at the walls

and if you're a nerd you're gonna start

looking at walls a lot.

One of the things you go, Hey,

I see these wireless access points laying around

but they don't have any AC adapters.

Well, there's a very good reason for that

and that's because the vast majority of these types

of devices are what we call power over ethernet

in that these devices actually get their electricity

from the ethernet cable that they connect to.

In order to take advantage of power over ethernet,

number one, you have to have devices that are PoE capable.

And you gotta be careful here.

There's two versions of PoE.

There's first generation PoE and PoE+.

PoE+ provides a lot more electricity

for individual devices.

And so you have to have either PoE and PoE+

wireless access points.

You need a good chunk of cable.

And here's the big one, you have to have a PoE switch.

So this switch has to be designed to actually

send out not only all the communication

but also the electricity.

So you'll see these switches that are PoE and PoE+.

PoE+ is very dominant these days.

And if you run into PoE, it's a rare thing.

The nice part about PoE is that you don't have to plug any

of your access points into a wall.

Now, if you don't have a PoE switch

you can use something like this.

This is a PoE injector.

I can plug an AC adapter into this.

I can plug this into my switch

and then plug the other end

into a PoE wireless access point.

And I get the same benefit

of having an actual PoE switch itself.

Okay.

Now, once you've got this configured

and whether you're using PoE or not,

in an enterprise environment, a few things change.

The first thing that you really start

needing to talk about is where are my wireless access points

and their antennas going to go.

So let's draw up a little diagram.

Using, this is more of a heavy duty enterprise tool

that's going to be helping me figure out

where to put my WAPs.

So here's a typical office environment.

I've got a really big office.

On one side, I got this long hallway, and then

I have some small offices on the other side.

Where we place WAPs can really be important.

So like for example,

do I wanna provide coverage in the hallway?

If that's the case,

I'm probably going to put very directional antennas

on one or both ends of this to provide coverage.

Remember, they provide a big, long narrow football shape.

If I want to do individual offices,

I could put a dipole right in the middle.

But another alternative is just to put patches on one side.

And that way with patches, it's putting out information

out into the room, but it's not sending stuff

outside where other people can get ahold of it.

In larger areas, I might wanna just consider using dipoles

or omnis, depending on the actual coverage of the space.

That will give me some idea

of how much coverage I actually need.

Now one of the things you can do, and again

this is with more enterprise type wireless analysis tools,

is you can actually start placing wireless access points

and they'll do what's called a heat map.

So let's put some heat on this.

So you can see where the red is.

That's where the highest coverage is

and then it dissipates out in a rainbow,

giving you a good idea of where you might have dead spots

or spots that are actually shooting out

outside of what you're interested

in providing wireless coverage to.

Now, I need to warn you,

the type of wireless analysis tools that do stuff

like this are not free.

You're gonna be spending a couple of grand

on something like that.

Or actually more often than not,

you're gonna be hiring wireless professionals to come in

and they're gonna go ahead

and do a really aggressive site survey

with heat maps and all this stuff to help you get

not only your wireless access points, but the types

of antennas placed in the right spot for your environment.

The other big change that takes place when you go

from SOHO Wireless to Enterprise Wireless is AAA.

AAA stands for authorization, authentication and accounting.

What we're talking about here is basically

you're gonna be using WPA2,

but you're not gonna be using personal shared key.

What you're gonna be using are either

radius or TACACS+ boxes that will actually

provide the authentication you need.

So when someone logs into a network,

they're not just going to suddenly know

the private shared key.

Their client is gonna make them sign in

with a username and a password, and assuming they get that

then they're assigned their WPA2 information

and they're in good shape, and then they actually connect.

So when you're talking about AAA, you're talking about

very, very aggressive authentication and authorization

and make sure we don't want just anybody jumping on this.

And you could add things like smart cards

and all kinds of extra stuff, but in general

it's usually just a username and a password.

Now, if you're gonna go through all this

you still have to go through the process

of configuring your wireless access points.

So what I've got right here is I've got two

wireless access points and I went ahead

and figured out what their IP addresses are.

Most of the time when you get enterprise level WAPs

like these, they're gonna come with this

and you basically plug any computer into this switch

and it will go out and query them as a group.

In this case, we're gonna do them individually.

All right, so here I am

in one of these two wireless access points.

First of all, the big thing you're gonna notice

there's nothing in here but wireless.

There's not gonna be any firewall settings

or DHCP servers.

That's not what these are for.

It's just a WAP.

So I've got a quick summary here

and I can check my LAN status, for example.

I can see what my IP address is,

my default gateway, all that type of stuff.

My wireless status right now,

I don't have anything turned on.

It's all turned off for the moment

and I obviously I won't have any wireless clients.

So I could do a quick start but what fun is that?

Let's go to configuration.

Now the first thing is, is I'm gonna have user accounts.

These are accounts that can actually log in and do stuff

to these wireless access points.

So for now, I'm just gonna keep the default

which is Admin Admin, but you would normally change this.

So the next thing I'd be doing

on the LAN side is I'd probably wanna give it

some kind of descriptive name

because if I have 500 of these,

I'm gonna want some kind of name

that helps me remember all of them.

Now the other thing we're gonna do is probably

set static IP addresses.

I'm gonna leave it as DHCP for right now.

But if these were my wireless access points,

I would start, for example, 10.11.12.10, .11, .12, .13.

I would have a bunch of these all preset

on static IP addresses 'cause I don't want this address

to change at any time.

Now on the wireless side

a lot of this stuff should look pretty familiar.

Let's go ahead and set up a basic SSID.

So I've got a radio one and it says N only, G only,

BG and N.

So we know just because we know

our different 802.11 extensions

that this is a 2.4 gigahertz radio.

So what I'm getting ready to do is set up SSIDs

for each one of these individual devices

but that rarely happens in an enterprise environment.

In an enterprise environment, what we're setting

up is called an ESSID.

An ESSID is a single SSID name, whatever you wanna call it.

Call it Mike24, Mike50.

But it's the same SSID on all of the different WAPs.

If you set up the same SSID on a bunch of different WAPs,

and if all these WAPs plug into the basic

same local area network,

you'll create an ESSID and magic things happen.

For example, by setting this up

I could be closer to this WAP

and I'll be connected there on my Google or whatever

but as I walk across campus or whatever it might be

and get closer to this one, it will automatically hand off.

I don't have to do anything.

There is nothing to configure, it just works.

And I'll just pick up from this guy right here

as though I never disconnected from anything.

There is actually a millisecond handover

but it's really, really quick.

So the secret to an ESSID is make the same SSID

on all of the different devices

and make sure they're all a member of the same LAN.

Got the idea?

Okay, so 'cause we're gonna do this the hard way first

then I'm gonna show you an easier way.

So I'm gonna enable this one

and because I know this is the 2.4

I'm gonna call it Mike24 and I'm gonna broadcast it.

Now here's another setting I want you to be aware of.

This is called isolation.

In a wireless isolation, what's taking place,

normally with a wireless network,

if you've got your network discovery turned on and stuff

you can share folders and files and do anything you want.

It works great.

However, if you do isolation

what's gonna take place is that the only computer

on the network your wireless colleagues can talk to

is the actual wireless access point.

They won't even be able to share folders or files.

They wouldn't be able to ping each other.

So it's a really powerful way, if you want

like a coffee shop where you want people to be able

to get on the internet

but you don't want them passing folders and files.

So isolation is very convenient.

And we can set this up to be on a particular vLAN.

I'm gonna leave it at the default from here.

You can even set the maximum number of clients.

So I'm gonna go ahead and save this.

Now I'm gonna go over to radio two

and you'll see it says AC only.

So I instantly know that this is my five gigahertz radio.

I'll enable that.

Call this one Mike50, turn on the broadcast,

can leave isolation alone as it is for right now

and hit save.

So while I'm in here, I can even set up security.

So for example, by default it goes to WPA2 personal

with AES, I've got a pre-shared key set up.

Let's check the other radio.

And that's Mike5.0.

So one more thing back here.

Notice how many different SSIDs you can make.

This could be really convenient.

Like this could be the office

and this could be guest for example.

So in the office one, I could keep isolation turned off,

whereas in the guest one

I would turn isolation on, that type of thing.

So I can really have some powerful tools.

Anyway, the next one I wanna talk about

is rogue AP detection.

One of the most frustrating aspects to a wireless network is

if somebody walks up and fires up their own access point.

It happens all the time.

What we can do is we can set this up,

all of these access points have a MAC address

and they'll all know each other's MAC address.

That way, if any other device tries to act as a WAP

and it's not on the list of known MAC addresses,

they'll simply block it.

They won't use it, it'll be ignored.

And in fact, on more advanced systems

we can do things like set up jammer systems

and bring in guys in helicopters.

Okay, maybe I'm kidding about the last part

but rogue APs are a real problem.

So we're always looking

about ways to get out of trouble with those.

One of the most important things we can do is

if you know what you are passing out.

For example, I've got a DHCP server somewhere.

It might be passing out 10.11.12s

and suddenly one day I fire up my network

and I'm on the wireless network

but suddenly I'm getting 44.66.8.

Hey, wait a minute, that's not an APIPA

but that's not my proper network ID.

This is why I yell at people all the time

know your network ID for the networks you dwell upon.

And that way when weird stuff happens, you're ready for it.

So rogue access points, a big problem.

But there's more, let's check it out.

So one other option you'll see a lot of times

is what we call a rate limit.

I can actually throttle the speed that

that particular SSID might be doing,

either upstream or downstream.

So that can be pretty handy.

Okay, well we've got one setup, but now

if we want an ESSID, we've gotta do this all over again.

Every single wireless access point on my ESSID

needs to be configured.

I'm gonna have to go back into each one of the radios

and set that Mike24 and the Mike50.

I've gotta set a bunch of these up

in order to have an ESSID.

Well, all right, well, I'm made of tougher stuff.

I can do this.

But there's one more thing I wanna show you

and that's what we call a captive portal.

Everybody's seen a captive portal.

A captive portal is one of those things

where you click on it and all of a sudden

it makes you log in or type in your room number

or something like that.

So for example, on this, I can actually customize a page.

We can get a little peek what it looks like,

where I can make them type in a username and password.

This is not a radius or a TACACS username and password.

This is something where we create our own users

for our own ESSID.

We're already starting to run into a problem here.

I'm setting up all of these individual WAPs

and if I start putting users on 'em

they better be identical.

Same name, same password.

What we do instead is we start running

into special wireless LAN switches.

A wireless LAN switch is a switch.

It's got PoE in it.

But what we do is instead of configuring a whole bunch

of wireless access points, we go into the switch

and we set up one ESSID, which is then propagated

out to all of the different wireless access points.

Or if we wanna set up a captive portal,

we set up one captive portal

and all the usernames are propagated

out to all the different wireless access points.

And that's where the real big difference comes into play.

The individual cost of a wireless access point

these days is sub-hundred dollars for a pretty good one,

a couple of hundred for a very good one.

But where they get you is with these specialty switches

that, well, they're switches

but there's switches that are designed to work

with wireless access points.

They're expensive and they're powerful.

And the only place you're gonna be seeing those

is at an enterprise wireless network.