-: Yes, friends, once again, the great Mike Stromi is going to go through some of the different types of errors you might run into in a wireless network because they're listed on the A+ and I wanna make sure they're all covered. So let's go ahead and knock out some of the great errors and Mike Stromi will tell you how to deal with them. Oh, before we get started though a really handy tool to have around anytime you're having wireless problems is some kind of wifi analyzer, for me, the builtin tools that I can get for my phone are not necessarily built in, downloadable tools for Android, for example wifi man can often be real big benefits in terms of saying can I see this network? So a lot of times if you have a problem with one machine and they can't see something, having another machine smartphones are great for this, who will go out and look at their wireless networks can often correlate and go, oh he can't see it either. So if you have two devices that can't see a wireless network, guess what? Maybe you shouldn't be worried about the devices and you should be worried about the SSID. Alright, anyway, let's go through some of the different types of errors we run into. Number one is no connectivity. Well, it really depends on things here. No connectivity means, well, maybe you're trying to get to an SSID that doesn't exist. So this is always a big problem especially because of profiles. You'll be like, well, I go into the coffee shop all the time and it just works and all of a sudden one day you have no connectivity. Well, A, they may have changed the SSID or B they may have changed the passcode and it's simply a matter of talking to the people who are controlling that SSID or at least the poor barista behind the bar and say, Hey did you guys change the password or something? And that's often all you need to deal with. The other big problem is low radio frequency signal. So if you've got a low signal and if it's too low you're just not gonna have any connectivity. Now it may show that you're connected to the SSID but it'll keep blanking on and off. You actually look, you'll see that it's turning off and turning on because you just don't have enough signal. That being the case, there's a few things you can do. Number one, get closer to the SID, number two, you might wanna take a look at your antennas especially if they're external antennas. One of the things that drives me crazy, you'll see a lot of wireless access points that look like this and you'll see people do whoop. You'll see people do numbers like this. Remember these are dipoles. So what you're doing by doing a setup like this is that you're now shooting your signal this way and this way. Maybe if you're in a two story scenario that could be helpful. But also keep in mind that a lot of times you have different antennas on here. On this particular device here, one of these antennas is just for the 2.4 gigahertz and these other two are for the five gigahertz. So if suddenly somebody said, ah, Mike, I can't get logged into your SSID on the 2.4 gigahertz band or the MIKE24 SSID I can't get to it. A lot of times it's just walking over to your WAP and straightening these guys out a little bit and suddenly people can connect. If you get into a situation where an SSID that you've used before is suddenly not found, again same situation, somebody's changed it. The only other possibility is that if somebody turns off SSID broadcast, if they turn it off you're gonna have to manually configure a profile for that which means you need to know the exact name of the SSID. You also have to know whether it's WPA or WPA two and you have to know the passcode. Without those, you're not going to get into an SSID that isn't broadcasting, but if somebody's not broadcasting they're prepared to give people that information. The other one is limited connectivity. By limited connectivity you're running some super high-end 80211 AC connection and you're used to being able to download multiple high def movies simultaneously and then one day it's not so good. A lot of the situations that happen for no connectivity also happen for low connectivity or limited connectivity in particular if somebody has suddenly built an extra wall or they put some baby monitors right next to your WAP or something like that that can really slow down your transfer speeds. And in that case, it's a matter of trying to find where that interference is and pushing stuff out of the way. A lot of these analyzers are designed not just for 80211 but for anything in any ISM band. And they can find things like baby monitors. They can even find microwaves that are leaking and shooting out too much signal which can also cause slow transfer speeds. So make sure you're aware of these things. And of course, your low RF signal, just because you can connect to somebody doesn't mean that you're gonna be enjoying all the chocolatey goodness of whatever version of 80211 you're running. And the same stuff that we talked about for no connectivity are gonna come into play. Getting closer, making sure there aren't walls in between you, that type of thing. Now, intermittent connectivity is a strange animal. I'm running great, everything's fantastic and all of a sudden thud I've got no connection or everything's stalling and then boom, I'm running great, everything's fantastic. So we're not talking no connectivity we're not talking limited connectivity. Everything is either running great or I'm stalling, in those situations. Number one, it's again, low RF signals especially more advanced versions of 80211 AC are incredibly good at getting around problems, getting around walls getting around interference, but sometimes if they can't they're just going to stop and then restart again. The other big problem you run into with intermittent connectivity is you've just got too many people on your wireless network. Anybody who's ever been to a professional sports game of any type and has tried to use their wifi inside a stadium knows exactly what I'm talking about although they're working on it and they're doing better and better, in these types of situations especially if you're in charge of the SSID you're gonna have to get more WAPs. There's no way around it there. There's just a limit in terms of the amount of connectivity and you have to deal with that stuff. The other thing you might wanna consider is putting in QOS, by establishing QOS for either you wanna make sure certain computers always get good bandwidth and limiting other people. You can also do things like setting up particular ports if you have an application that needs it to make sure that it always gets as much bandwidth as possible. So watch out for these types of questions. They're listed as objectives on the A+ and the Great Mike Stromi has, once again, got them covered.