-: LAN, WAN, PAN, HAM.

I mean, the A+ is full of these little acronyms.

Now, we've covered some of those,

but I wanna kinda take this episode

and get them all wrapped up in one nice, pretty bow.

So let's go ahead and get started with a LAN.

A LAN is a group of computers that are all hooked together

to one switch in such a way

that they can easily communicate with each other.

A LAN is distinct because all of the computers

within this one LAN are going to share

an identical network ID.

So in this particular LAN,

they're all gonna be 192.168.4. something.

Now, we can have lots of LANs,

lots and lots of LANs all over the place.

And if we start to interconnect these LANs using routers,

we no longer have a single LAN.

What we now have is a WAN.

So a wide area network that has a bunch

of local area networks interconnected

with one or more routers,

and each one of these LANs has a unique network ID.

Now, if we spread this wide area network out

across an entire town, for example,

we are going to have a metropolitan area network.

And if we connect all of these different towns together

with lots more routers

so that it covers the United States,

ah, forget the United States,

let's do all over the world,

we now have the internet. (laughing)

So the internet really is the biggest wide area network

we have out there.

So let's go ahead and get this all put together.

Number one: a local area network, or a LAN,

is a group of computers that all share

the same network ID.

Then they tend to be physically very, very close

to each other.

A wide area network, or a WAN,

is two or more local area networks connected together

via one or more routers.

A metropolitan area network, or a MAN,

is going to be a wide area network,

but it's limited to just a municipal area.

And the last one, just to be a little bit different,

is PAN, and remember PAN is unique only

to Bluetooth networks.

And it's a direct point-to-point connection

between two Bluetooth-capable devices.

Make sure you get your ANs together,

because CompTIA just loves to talk about this stuff.