-: Okay folks, over the next few episodes,

we're gonna be going through

lots of different protocols out there.

Now, when I talk about protocols, in this case,

I mean application protocols.

I know for a lot of us folks

if we wanna get on the internet

what you're really doing is you're opening up a web browser

and you're checking your mail,

or you're opening up your browser and you're going to Google

or you're opening up your browser and you're playing a game.

You always keep opening up your browser

to do stuff, and that's great.

The web is an important part of the internet

but first of all, it's not the only part.

And a big thing we're gonna be doing

over these next few episodes is looking at all kinds

of other application protocols with names like SSH and FTP

and email and things like that.

And yeah, we'll do the web as well.

But what's important here is we need to really

take some time to think about what's happening

when we make a connection to a server out there.

In particular we need to think about the ports.

And here's a big fact, did you know

that servers have firewalls too?

Well, they do.

So we are pretty comfortable with the idea

of individual clients with their host based firewalls

and then they've got a firewall on their router,

but servers have this stuff as well

and it could make some really

important issues that come into play.

So let's take a moment and review the whole idea

of a IP packet as it goes from a client

to a server and then from a server and to a client.

Over here is a client computer.

This client computer is hooked through all kinds of routers

and all types of ISPs into the internet.

In fact, the internet is so complicated

that most of the time when we talk about the internet,

we just draw a cloud.

The reason it's a cloud is because we don't really care

what's going on in there as long as our server over here

is also connected to the internet.

So what I wanna do is open up a webpage over on this server.

So a lot of things have to happen for that to take place.

I'm gonna open up a web browser for starters.

Now I'm gonna have a host-based firewall on this system.

So somewhere in that firewall,

it has to say any outbound Port 80,

this is an HTTP, 'cause that's a web.

All web applications go out on outbound protocol Port 80.

Now of course there'll be another port number behind it

but we're talking about the destination here.

So it's gonna go out on port 80

and the host based firewall has to let them through,

and they do a good job of that.

Secondly, our router has to allow outgoing port 80.

So most routers, certainly all SOHO routers,

allow outbound port 80 by default.

However, built into this thing is gonna be a firewall

that's gonna block incoming port 80.

So this firewall will allow outgoing port 80,

but it's gonna block incoming port 80.

Remember that when we come back.

So it goes out through the internet

and it comes into the server.

So the server is listening for incoming port 80,

which is good, and it's gonna go ahead and process that.

And then when it sends it back, what it's gonna do,

it's gonna swap these two port numbers.

So now the destination port number

is going to be this number,

and then the source port number is 80.

So as it comes back to this router,

remember he's blocking port 80,

but it's not port 80, it's this port number.

This is simply a source port number so it doesn't block it,

so it goes right through.

Now I want you to think for a minute,

and what if we put this firewall on our server?

So now what's gonna happen, we send out the same packet,

this router lets all of the outgoing port 80 in.

But if we put the same one on here

it's blocking incoming port 80.

Get the idea?

So we can't block incoming port 80 on a server.

So anything that a server is serving,

whatever that port number is, it has to be left open.

So all servers have firewalls.

There's no exception to that.

So if you're trying to get to some webpage

it's probably stored on a bunch of computers

out in the middle of a prairie somewhere.

However, those computers out on the prairie

are connected to the internet 'cause they have to be.

And they're connected via a router.

And that router has

some kind of firewalling built into it, promise,

or it might have a separate box,

but there's still a firewall.

These firewalls,

because they're serving public facing servers,

which are listening for port 80,

they're not gonna block on individual port numbers like 80,

but they will use stateful firewalls that'll be watching

for naughty things coming in or people trying to ping 'em

or something that might be bad.

And in that case, they're often blocked.

So understand that just because you have

a public facing server with a public IP address

and it's listening in on port 80,

it's still gonna have a firewall.

But if it's a web server,

it will most certainly allow incoming Port 80.

Now you think about this for a minute.

Why doesn't our router in our house have incoming Port 80?

Simple, 'cause we don't have any web servers.

We have web clients, but we don't have any web servers.

There are gonna be questions on the A+, folks,

where you really need to be comfortable

with the concept of incoming

versus outgoing on a particular port number.

So if you're a server, you will have a firewall.

You better make sure that you're open

on whatever port you're listening on.

If you're a client and you're just sending stuff out

it's not gonna be worried about outgoing port numbers.

It's only going to be worried about incoming

because there are no web servers in our local area network

where we're at the house or whatever.

We don't want people to be poking

'cause they're only up to no good.

Be comfortable with this difference.