-: Ooh.

Email. It's been around forever.

We love it, we hate it.

We all use it.

There was a time when we'd all have one email account

and these days it seems like I've got about,

well, I actually counted

and I have around 10 active email accounts,

plus about another 20 barely-use accounts

and then I even do away throwaway email accounts as well.

So email is a big thing.

And by the way, if you ever want to contact me,

here's my email address right here.

Now, in order to configure email,

we usually use an email client.

However, in today's world,

web-based email is extremely popular.

I use Gmail, I've got Office 365,

I've got Yahoo, I've got Proton Mail.

I've got all of these different web-based tools.

However, even if you're using a web-based tool,

you still have to configure it

so that it can send and receive your email.

Now, for a lot of folks,

this is kind of automatically configured.

You fire up Gmail and you set in your account settings

and boom, everything's configured.

However, there are a lot of situations

where you might wanna connect to a non-popular one

or you have your own little email server

and that's really what I wanna talk about here.

So we have three different protocols you need to deal with:

SMTP, which runs on port 25,

then POP3, which runs on port 110,

and then IMAP, which runs on port 143.

So why do I need three protocols to do one thing?

Let me explain.

SMTP is the protocol that we use

to send our mail up to an SMTP server.

So you're gonna have to configure an SMTP server,

and they usually have interesting names

like mail.totalsem.com or something like that.

Now you have a choice between either POP3 or IMAP.

You use one or the other.

You don't use both.

Both of these bring email down to your email client.

POP3 is very simplistic.

It works great,

but you have to set up all your own folders

on the client itself.

IMAP actually stores all of your folders

and all of your organization

so that no matter where your client is,

it will simply copy that down,

and today, IMAP is very, very popular.

Now, there've been a lot of versions

of POP and IMAP over the years.

The latest versions are going to be POP3 and IMAP4.

So if you see IMAP or IMAP4,

it's gonna be the same thing when it comes to configuration.

If you're gonna see POP or POP3,

it's gonna be the same thing

because nobody uses IMAP2, for example.

Nobody uses POP2 anymore.

So don't panic about the number at the end of these.

And they always use the same port numbers no matter what.

Okay, so what I wanna do

is I wanna actually set up

a more traditional email account,

except this time what I'm going to do

is I'm gonna use my iPhone.

So what I'm gonna have to do is create an email account.

And on this phone, it actually isn't too big of a deal,

but you have to know where to click.

So let's start setting up an email account on my iPhone.

All right, so to set this up, I'm gonna click on Settings

and then I'm gonna scroll down and find my accounts.

There we go, Passwords & Accounts.

Now what I wanna do is add an account,

and I could use these by default,

which will set up

all this POP and IMAP for me automatically,

but we're gonna do this hard way and select Other.

And now I'm gonna add a mail account

and I'm gonna give it some name

and I'm gonna give it some email.

So I'll type in

mike@totalhome.com.

And I'm gonna type in some password, total,

and we're gonna fire it up.

So it's gonna look up the account.

Now, a lot of these things would stop right here

and say, "Hey, man, there's a problem,"

and there really is, 'cause I'm making this up as I go.

But if you take a look towards the bottom here,

you can see that we have a incoming mail server

and an outgoing mail server.

The outgoing is always going to be SMTP.

So in this particular example,

I'm gonna type in

mail.totalhome.com.

And I know what to type in because somebody told me.

You're not gonna magically know this stuff.

Now, on a lot of these SMTP servers,

you have to log in with a username and password.

I'm gonna leave that blank for now,

but again, someone would tell you

if you have to type this stuff in.

On the incoming, now, this is a little bit trickier.

Let me scroll towards the top.

And this is how they do it on this particular interface.

Notice it says IMAP and POP.

So if I wanted to do a POP3, I'd press on POP.

If I wanted do IMAP4, I'd press on IMAP.

It's already at IMAP, so we're in good shape here.

So let's go ahead and type in the incoming mail server.

So this'll just be

mail.totalhome.com

and a username.

And we'll probably just type in,

under the username, we'll just type in Mike.

Now, a lot of times it'll look like this,

.totalhome.com.

Perfect.

So setting up your SMTP, POP, and IMAP information

isn't that hard.

I did it here on a smartphone.

Laptops, desktops, anybody can do this.

The trick is that you don't know this stuff automagically.

If someone is telling you

to manually set up your mail information,

they're giving you this information.

You've got a mail administrator

who's sending you a piece of paper

with this information on it.

I don't magically know what this is.

I don't know if you also noticed,

but on the SMTP server and the IMAP, the incoming server,

it was both mail.totalhome.com.

That's actually very common.

It's one box that's handling both incoming and outgoing.

It works perfectly well.

Now, the one thing I need to warn you about,

and I feel that CompTIA's made a mistake here,

and that is for the exam,

make sure you know these port numbers.

However, most mail today is secured mail.

You almost never see SMTP on port 25, for example.

In fact, what we see today more than anything else

is our port numbers like 587.

These are secure versions of SMTP, of POP, and of IMAP.

And even though you need to know 25, 110, and 143

for the exam,

be aware in the real world

that these also have secure versions

which have completely different port numbers.