-: I spent a lot of decades on the road

teaching people about computers and networks.

I've got close to a million miles flying all over the world

and as a result of that, I've spent a lot

of time in airports wishing I was back at the office.

It would be so nice if I'm sitting in Denver or in Amsterdam

or somewhere in Canada when I'm sitting with my laptop,

it would be nice if I was back in the office

where I could print to my printers or I could share folders

and I could access stuff off of my file servers.

I would really like that.

Well, a lot of other people do, too.

And what we call that is

Virtual Private Networking, or a VPN.

Basically, what we're doing is we're taking

the internet, the most public of all networks,

and turning it into a fake, a virtual private network.

We're taking the internet and it's as though

we're taking a chunk of CAT6 cable from our switch

all the way out to the Denver airport and plugging me in.

I've got an IP address just like I'm at home.

I can see all the shared resources on my local area network

just like I'm sitting at my desk.

VPN is a powerful, powerful tool,

but it doesn't happen automatically.

You've gotta set it up.

Let me show you how VPNs work.

So, here's Mike's laptop sitting at

Denver International Airport.

I like Denver.

I like Denver.

Anyway, so I've got a wireless connection

and I've probably got some address

like 10.11.12.45 or something like that.

Whatever I happen to connect into when I logged in

and I'm on the internet and I'm browsing Google,

everything's great.

Well, what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna install

special software called VPN client

that's gonna do something miraculous.

What it's gonna do is that it's going

to make a direct connection between my laptop

and the WAN side of the router back at the office.

So, I know this IP address, because we pay

for a static IP address, this IP address never changes.

So, one of the things I'm gonna have to

tell the VPN client is the IP address

of the WAN side of my router at my network.

The moment that happens, this connection

kind of looks like a pipe,

that runs all the way from my computer,

all the way over to this router.

Now, the moment this takes place,

the router kind of lets me into the network

and my DHCP server gives me an IP address

and all of a sudden I have another connection

that has the same address

as though I was actually a DHCP client on my network.

So, we call this a tunnel,

a VPN tunnel, that makes this connection.

Notice, I have a local address.

If it's a private IP address,

it still works, folks, it's absolutely amazing.

And I can now suddenly see all my shared folders

on my network, all my printers, anything that's

in my local area network appears on my computer right here.

To make all this work, not only do you need a VPN client,

but you're gonna need a router or sometimes a dedicated box

which acts as the VPN endpoint in your local area network.

Most people today will buy a special router that has

the VPN endpoint software built into the router itself.

There's a lot of ways to do it.

What we're worried about is how do we connect to our router?

And to do that, we're going to have to set up a VPN client

and we've got one that's built into Windows.

Now, before I show you this, I need to warn you,

the VPN client that's built into Windows is pretty limited.

There are lots of ways to make VPNs

and they have all these protocol names like PPTP

or L2TP or IPsec and all these different names.

And for a lot of these,

you're gonna have to get a third party tool.

Like for example, if you get a Cisco VPN router,

they will actually give you software that you install

on your computer to make the VPN client, get the idea?

So, there's multiple ways to do this.

I just wanna show you using the built-in Windows client,

which actually works for a lot of different VPNs.

You ready?

Let's go.

So, to set this up, we're gonna head

over to our network connections

and we'll go take a look.

Here's VPN,

and what we're gonna do is

we're gonna add a VPN connection.

So, the provider in this case

it's just a built-in Windows one.

We call it any name we want to.

I like to call it phone home.

I need to know the address of the VPN router.

So, I have to know this and I'm told that if I need to.

The VPN type, automatic is good,

but here's where I'm talking about

all these crazy protocols.

When in doubt, leave it as automatic.

You are absolutely gonna have to type

in a username and password,

or you might have to punch a smart card into your laptop,

might have a one time password.

You can even put a certificate

on your computer that can allow you to log in,

but username and password's the most common.

So, I'm gonna do Mike, password total,

and I'm gonna save this.

The moment I save that VPN connection,

it actually manifests as a new network card.

Now, you gotta think about this for a minute.

With A VPN, I'm out on the internet somewhere

with some IP address, who knows what.

So, the moment I connect into my own local area network,

I'm now going to get an IP address of my LAN.

So, Microsoft likes to manifest this by showing

you two network cards.

Let me show you.

So, here we go.

Here's my ethernet card.

Here's something, ignore me for now,

and then here's my actual VPN connection.

Now, let me show you you something.

Right now it's disconnected, but right click on this.

Go to properties.

There you go.

You want it to have a DHCP when it connects to

your local area network, or do you wanna give it a static?

It really acts exactly like a network card.

Now, to actually make the connection,

all I gotta do is double click on that

and assuming that I've got a good VPN server,

the connection takes place and boom, you type IP configs.

Suddenly you're gonna have whatever your internal

network is, 1 9 2 1 68 4.

It's just there.

Now though, remember, you're in Denver

and now you've got a problem.

Let me show you what the problem is.

So, here you are in Denver and you're connected

to your local area network through your VPN,

and everything's great.

You're printing to the printers at the office

and you're got access to the file server at the office.

Everything's super.

Except now all of a sudden you open up a web browser

and you wanna go to Google.

Think about what's about to happen.

If you open up a web browser, well, remember,

you're connected to your local area network,

so it's gonna go through the internet into your network.

It's then going to go, oh, this is for Google.

So it's gonna go out, it's gonna head over to Google,

grab that web request, bring it back down in here,

and then bring it all the way back.

In the VPN world, we call this, ah, I forgot,

here, somebody put it on the bottom of the screen.

Ah, yep, that's it.

Okay, now I remember.

Anyway, this is a big problem you run

into with like Microsoft VPN clients.

If you need more advanced settings,

you're usually gonna be turning to

third party VPN clients that will take care

of little issues like this and lots others.