-: How many different technologies

does it take to turn on a light bulb?

Well, the answer is three.

So in this episode, what I wanna do

is talk about the Internet of Things,

and I'm gonna be concentrating on home automation

because that's where we tend to see this type of stuff.

Today, when we say Internet of Things,

we're talking about giving internet capability

to all kinds of stuff that we would never have considered

to be internet capable before.

Thermostats, light bulbs, refrigerators, hot water heaters,

door locks, garage door openers, the list goes on and on

of our ability to remotely control all kinds of devices

simply by putting them on the internet.

Ergo, Internet of Things,

This little light bulb in my hand has a microprocessor.

It has an address so it can be talked to.

It has an API, so I can make it do all kinds of stuff,

change colors, things like that.

I've got two light bulbs behind me.

The one on the left is a monochrome light bulb

so it's just white,

but this one will change into any color of the rainbow.

I'll show you these guys in just a minute.

But first of all, let's talk about the three types

of technologies we use to talk to all of these devices.

Now, clearly they need to be wireless

and almost all Internet of Things devices are wireless.

So first of all, 802.11

is going to be a very common methodology

to talk to these kinds of guys.

Second is Zigbee.

Zigbee is used exclusively for Internet of Things.

It's designed for home automation more than anything else.

It's been around for a while.

Zigbee runs on the 2.4 gigahertz band.

It doesn't have a lot of bandwidth

'cause it doesn't need it.

It's not like we're sending movies to our dryers.

We're just trying to tell the dryer to turn on or turn off.

So there's not a whole lot of bandwidth necessary.

The last one is called Z-Wave.

Z-Wave runs in the 900 megahertz band.

So it's a much lower band.

Used to be used for different types of portable phones

but now it's a pretty quiet band area,

and we'll see that used a lot as well.

Now, the trick to Internet of Things

is that you're first of all

gonna have to have some kind of hub

and that's what I've got here in front of me.

So one of these is a Phillips branded hub

which is designed to talk to, well, Philips light bulbs

but it'll actually talk to all kinds of stuff.

And then next to me is a classic Google Home.

Okay, Google, what time is it?

Google: It's 9:08.

-: So these little devices act as the primary hub

for all of our many Internet of Things

that we'll see in our homes.

Now, it will take some configuration.

For example, I can use my tablet here

and actually bring up an application.

Now this application has two different lamps on here.

So here's my white lamp.

So I'm gonna click on this.

Hey, my lamp's on.

You watch the lamp, I'm gonna turn it off now.

Cool, huh?

Look at me using all this technology

to turn on a light bulb,

and it's also got a dimmer on it as well.

Now, using tools like this are great

but what really makes a lot of these home automation tools

even more fun is when we bring in voice tools.

Like for example, you ready?

Hey Siri, turn all the studio lights green.

Siri: Okay, green.

-: How cool is that?

So the answer is it takes three different types

of technologies to turn on a light bulb.