-: One of the really fun things to do

is to create virtual machines.

Well, okay, for a nerd like me, it is.

It's a lot of fun.

You could really do some amazing stuff.

Like for example, let's say you're a Windows person

and you want to be able to try Linux,

you wanna try Ubuntu.

Well, you could erase your Windows and put a copy of Ubuntu

or you could run Ubuntu on a live CD,

which is okay.

Or you can create a virtual machine

and have a full-blown Ubuntu on your Windows machine

without messing with any of your Windows stuff.

There's one example of having a virtual machine.

So anybody who wants to pass the A+,

you're gonna have to learn Linux,

Windows people.

So why not go ahead,

download a copy of Oracle VirtualBox, it's free,

and set yourself up a virtual machine for Ubuntu?

In fact, we're going to do that

as our first virtual machine.

All right.

Now again, there are other hypervisors out there.

I have no problem with them.

I just find this particular hypervisor,

Oracle does a great job with it.

So let us begin.

It's easy to get a copy of VirtualBox.

Just use your search tools and type in virtualbox

and that will point you...

I like to skip the ads.

Here we go, Oracle VM VirtualBox right here

talks about how great it is.

Right over here is Downloads.

So what you wanna do

is you wanna download the hypervisor for your platform.

So notice that it works on Windows, Mac, and Linux.

It works on just about anything.

So you can download the tool that you want.

Now, the only other thing that you need to be careful about,

you're gonna go ahead and download and install this,

but the other thing you're gonna want to grab

is this Extension Pack.

The Extension Pack adds a lot of extra features

to the base hypervisor,

little things like being able to access USB,

or to be able to...

Remember you're gonna be in a window, right,

so what does the mouse do

depending on where you're at.

Little extra features like that are only available

by installing this Extension Pack as well.

So be sure and grab a copy of that while you're at it.

By the way, when you install,

if you forget to get this,

it'll remind you and get it one for you.

So go ahead and install it.

It's pretty straightforward install.

But once it's installed,

well, you won't have all my virtual machines in here,

but we're gonna go ahead and make our own.

So let's go ahead and just click on New.

Now, this is actually fascinating.

It's looking at the host operating system

and guessing what I wanna do,

but watch what happens if I type in Ubuntu.

This is just a feature of Oracle.

I think this is incredibly convenient.

And what it needs to know

is the type of operating system you're installing.

Different operating systems

have different resource requirements.

They're gonna need different amounts of RAM,

they're gonna need different amount of hard drive space,

things like that.

So what they're doing

is they're trying to help you pre-sort out

all the resource requirements

for your particular virtual machine.

Keep in mind, you can change this later.

Pretty cool stuff.

So I'm gonna go ahead and accept these defaults.

I'm gonna call this UbuntuTemp

'cause I've already got one in there,

and I can say where I wanna store it.

I like to put all my stuff

on a very special place over here on my D drive.

I'm gonna put it over here.

The reason I'm doing that is because

when a virtual machine is turned off,

it just manifests as this humongous file

that can be gigabytes big

and it's usually a good idea to kind of

separate all these virtual machine files

onto a separate mass storage.

So I'm gonna go ahead and hit Next.

Expert mode basically gets rid of this

and you have to make all your own settings

and it works out pretty good this way.

So what it's saying is, I need one megabyte of RAM.

Now that's probably okay for a really base Ubuntu.

Now it's a matter of just knowing your operating systems.

So this computer in front of me right here has I think 32,

yeah, there you go,

I have 32 gigabytes of RAM.

So I'm gonna allocate a little more RAM than the default.

I'm gonna give it,

let's kick it up to about three-ish.

You notice I don't have to be exactly right.

Remember that a virtual machine

is allocating a little bit of your actual resources.

Keep in mind that I'm running Windows on this thing

and I've got other programs in the background

and I'm running this hypervisor.

They need some of that RAM.

So you have to be really careful about this.

When you're running virtual machines,

the number one most important real estate is RAM.

You will pack on as much RAM as you can

into a physical system

'cause that allows you to run more virtual machines.

Get the idea.

So we're gonna go with around three megabytes.

I'm gonna hit Next.

Now it wants to create a virtual hard disk.

This virtual hard disk is going to be actually the file,

and we're gonna go ahead and create this.

Now there are different types.

So there are different brands.

For example, if I wanna run things like Hyper-V or VMware,

VDI is the default Oracle VirtualBox image.

And we'll just go with that.

The other nice part is,

is this file gonna be dynamically allocated

or it's gonna be fixed?

So you'll notice I set my hard drive

to be about 10 gigabytes.

It's not really gonna be 10 gigabytes

because it's dynamically allocated.

On the initial install,

when I shut down the virtual machine,

if this thing's even half a gigabyte,

I'd be surprised.

So dynamically allocating

actually saves on hard drive space.

The only downside to this

is that a lot of times access can be slowed down

'cause it literally has to expand

or contract a file on the fly.

So most of the time, dynamically allocated is just fine.

So it wants to know the name of the actual file.

And here's where I actually set the size itself.

Again, I'm gonna make it a little bit bigger

'cause I always like a little bit bigger.

And I create it.

So I have now created a virtual machine

and we can actually look

at all the different settings for this machine.

So for example,

the system itself, how much memory I have,

I can set a boot order for all my virtual media,

see by default, it gives me a floppy drive, not much use,

but also gives me an optical drive

which I find pretty handy.

It's going to set up my display.

Notice on this system,

I can have multiple monitors if I want.

I can set up the video memory.

So these things are pretty good

at dealing with 3D acceleration

and extra features like this.

Now granted these virtual machines can do 3D,

but I'm gonna warn you right now,

don't try to run some big high-end 3D game

in a virtual machine.

They try hard,

but they're still not quite there yet.

I can set up audio if I want.

I can have virtualized serial ports,

USB support, all kinds of fun stuff.

So we're just gonna hit OK for right now.

And now I'm gonna start it.

What?

Just because you made a virtual machine

that doesn't mean you have an operating system.

It doesn't magically make a copy of Ubuntu appear.

You've gotta go online,

download a copy of Ubuntu,

and install it.

If you wanna put Windows in here,

you're gonna have to get some Windows installation media,

you're gonna have to pay for it.

Yeah, that's right.

The virtual machine's free.

But if it's a Windows operating system,

you gotta pay for it still.

And then you go ahead and set all this stuff up.

Get that?

Now what I'm gonna do here,

I'm gonna cancel this.

And I get a no bootable device.

So that's pretty standard.

I'm gonna close this.

I'm just gonna power off the virtual machine.

And what we're gonna do

is we're gonna go into Settings

and I'm gonna give it some boot media.

So I'm gonna go into Storage,

and by default I get a SATA drive.

There's my hard drive

and I get a virtual optical drive.

So if I click on this,

now I have to load a optical media into that.

So if I click on this,

first of all, it will actually read the media

on my real optical drive.

Do you see that?

That's my I drive.

That's my real optical media.

Or I can just choose an ISO.

So I've got a bunch of ISOs laying around here.

So here is an ISO that I've downloaded

from Ubuntu right here.

I'm gonna open this

and it's now going to boot from this particular device.

Now we've covered ISO in other episodes,

but a lot of people are like, well, where?

Where did this magic ISO came from?

Well, I went to the Ubuntu website and downloaded it.

Let me show you how to grab one.

So here I am on the Ubuntu site.

I'm just gonna go on to Download

and there's lots of different versions of Ubuntu.

I'm gonna go with the Ubuntu Desktop

and basically there's always two different versions.

This is the long-term support LTS

and then this is the cutting-edge version.

I'm a big believer in the long-term support

'cause they tend to be the most stable.

Then Ubuntu wants you to donate money,

and because I'm cheap,

don't worry about it,

that's my contribution.

But in the meantime, if you look here,

it's actually downloading an ISO for me right now.

I've got a pretty slow connection.

That's gonna take a little bit.

So once you've downloaded the ISO,

all you've gotta do is in your virtual machine,

take your virtual CD-ROM drive

and just point to that ISO file.

That's it.

How easy is that?

Okay, now that he's connected,

let's go ahead and start him again.

Ah, this time it actually sees

the Ubuntu installation media.

Now I'm not gonna go through

the entire Ubuntu installation process.

I'll let you discover that for your own joy.

The only other thing we need to deal with,

and again, this is unique only to VirtualBox,

other hypervisors don't have this,

but to install that extra CD

with some of the extra chocolatey good features.

Once we're all the way installed,

all I need to do is come up to Devices

and I can insert the guest addition CD image.

And it'll go ahead and try to autostart.

So I'm gonna go ahead and let that run.

Once this is done,

you now have a virtual machine and it's ready to go.

Now it's just time for me to play with Ubuntu

and have a little fun.