-: Now, before we start talking about mobile devices, let's make sure we understand what is exactly a mobile device. So a couple of rule sets. Number one, a mobile device is going to be sealed. It's going to be a single unit that you cannot open or at least you can't open easily and you can't go in and replace memory and add hard drives and stuff like that. So it's gonna be a sealed single function system. Number two, a mobile device is going to be running very specific operating systems designed for mobile devices. These days, Android and iOS are the two big front runners, but there's actually others. There's a lot of versions of Linux, for example, which are designed to run on, ready for a term? An embedded system. All of these are embedded systems. By embedded, the operating system is intrinsic, stored on firmware to this device. Also, these devices aren't designed to support lots of different device drivers and such 'cause you're never gonna be seeing different hardware in a sealed system. Okay, now that we understand that, there's a few things that you can usually count on in any type of mobile device. For example, it's almost always gonna have some kind of wireless connectivity. At a very minimum, they're all gonna have 802.11, but they might also have things like, for example, Bluetooth, or Cellular, or Zigbee, or some kind of other type of technology that allows them to communicate with the outside world. They may or may not have wired connections, but if they do have a wired connection, it's probably gonna be mainly for charging. It's not gonna be necessarily for adding accessories, which are almost always done wirelessly. There's plenty of exceptions to that. Okay. Now with that attitude in mind, let's start off with the one that we all know and love, and it's a good old smartphone. This is my personal Android smartphone. Smart devices are either gonna be running Android or iOS operating system. There've been a few other attempts, like Windows had a mobile operating system that kind of disappeared. But the bottom line is that they're gonna run one of these. They're definitely gonna have Wi-Fi. They're, well, they're phones, so they're gonna have cellular. But more than that, they're gonna have a lot of interesting features. They pretty much all have GPS built into them. They have accelerometers, so you can keep track of how many steps you've done. They have all kinds of interesting features and we've covered those in other episodes. All right, now if you're gonna have a smartphone, what most people use is something like this. Take a look at this. You'll notice that this is a bumper for this add-on Samsung. The bumper is just a protective case. What it does is protects people like me from dropping these and end up spending lots and lots of money. This particular case is actually kind of cool. If you look down here, I can actually put this, I don't have it plugged in right now, but I can put this on here and I can actually do wireless charging, which is incredibly comfortable. So these are really convenient because I can actually charge things wirelessly. Wireless comes and goes. It was hot for a few years, it kinda lost interest. It's kinda hot again right now. We'll see what happens in another year and a half. You can even, well, the big thing about smartphones is we don't want them to lose battery power so we're always interested in more battery. You're certainly gonna have battery chargers. My old joke is I actually remember a time in my life where the endpoints in my life were not USB-C connectors, because I've got one in my car. I've got one in my desk in the office. I've got one in my laptop case. I've got one on my bed stand. I've got one next to my kitchen table. I've got one in my home office. 'Cause the first thing I do is whenever I'm sitting down anywhere is I plug in my Pixel and I start charging it again. So lots and lots of battery chargers around. Some people will actually get bumpers with built-in extra battery packs. What it does is it just gives them more batteries so they can run a little bit longer. Oh, another thing when it comes on these bumpers, is a lot of times you can actually get a protective cover for the glass itself. Those are, they work great, they prevent scratches, but they're not gonna prevent anything from being broken. All right. To me, the big brother of a smartphone is right here. So this is a tablet. This is an iPad tablet right here. Tablets have been around for ages. We see them in all kinds of interesting places. A lot of restaurants for point of sale systems. There's actually a string of restaurants in airports where you don't really get a waiter. What you get is one of these and you just order off of it and then somebody brings you food. They're gonna run the exact same operating system that the equivalent smartphone runs, so you can get Android tablets, you can get iOS tablets. This is like an iPad here. They work beautifully. Again, but it's a sealed system and they have their place. One place I like to use a tablet is for my home automation. So I have all these home automation devices and instead of trying to get my phone to use it, I have one tablet that's kind of just dedicated to that one particular job. Okay, so tablets and smart devices are definitely the two biggies, but I wanna make sure we're comfortable with a lot of other things. In particular, I wanna talk about wearable technology. So let's start with this guy right here. This is Mike's smartwatch. So this is a little Fitbit, and I like to use this. It's got built-in accelerometers. It's got a heart rate monitor. It has lots of extra little features like that. It syncs with my phone and it shows me how much I've been walking and stuff 'cause I could use a little walking, couldn't I? All right. Along with that is gonna be something like this. See if we can get this Wahoo in here. So you see the Wahoo? This is a heart rate monitor designed for somebody a little little bit smaller than me. Well, I'm gonna make this work now. There we go. And this can actually sync with my phone or another device, and it can keep track of my heart rate in an extremely accurate way far better than my phone. See these at lots of health clubs. Okay. The other big type of device we see a lot are eReaders. This is a Kindle Paper White. It's an eReader and it works with my Amazon books so I can read them. I like it because it uses very little power. You can get a lot of different types of eReaders out there, except I like this one because it's just, it doesn't use much electricity. It doesn't have a back light, isn't in color. It just works. I love that thing. Okay, let's keep going. We have so many fun things to play with here. Here's another good one. This is a GPS device. I might argue that GPSs are some of the earliest smart devices out there. Obviously it's a sealed device. It certainly has an operating system. Usually some cut down version of Linux. It stores maps within the GPS itself unlike our phones and they've been around for quite a bit. It's actually kind of interesting. A lot of these are pretty smart devices in terms of they'll actually work with for things like Google Auto and things like that to allow synchronizing of different types of features like that. You can actually talk to your GPS and dial your phone. Fun things like that. What else do we have? Ooh, let's talk about connections. Let's take a look at this guy right here. This is a credit card reader. Credit card readers are really popular. This is for the swipe style. I've got another style here. And this one I could actually slide chip cards into. It's wireless. It works just like that. These are great for reading credit cards. If you wanna be doing some business, this is a great way to go. So the last thing I wanna mention is that there is one place where you might be able to provide some expandability to your smart device, and that is through SD, or micro SD, or sometimes even mini SD cards. Now these cards, which we cover in other episodes, add a little bit of memory or I should actually say storage to your smart devices. Apple devices pretty much don't use them. However, you're gonna find lots of Android devices, and GPSs, and eReaders, and all kinds of other stuff that will use it. It's often a big benefit and for a lot of people it's the main reason they're gonna go towards an Android device.