-: If you wanna use a printer, you're gonna have to connect it. Now, there are three ways that we can connect to get printers so that we can use them. Number one is going to be a local printer. In that case, what we're talking about is we're gonna take this printer and we're gonna plug it into a local system. Now by default, that means you're the only person who can use it. We'll talk about sharing in other episodes. The second way you can set up a printer is on a network. So that could either be with an RJ45 cable, assuming your printer has that, or wireless, again, assuming if your printer has that. We'll save that for another episode. And the third way is cloud printing. And you know what? We're gonna save that for another episode too. So what I wanna do is start with the basics here. And we're gonna set up this inkjet printer as a local printer. So there's really only two ways that the CompTIA A+ talks about how to physically connect a printer to a system. Number one is going to be USB, and the overwhelming majority of all printers out there all have USB connections. I've got episodes on thermal printers, and impact printers, and laser printers, and inkjet printers, and all four of those examples had USB connections. That is the overwhelming, predominant, primary way that you're gonna connect. However, there are situations where you might have serial connections. Like here's a little thermal printer. Now this thermal printer, it's got a USB connection, so if I wanna run it as USB I can. But a lot of times, these are connected to point of sale systems. And point of sale systems use just simple little serial connections. And this guy actually has, it looks like an RJ11, but it's really just a serial connection that I would plug this directly into a point of sale system with a cash register drawer and it would work just fine. Okay, but for this episode, what I wanna do is get this printer working perfectly well with my Windows 10 system. So the first thing I'm gonna have to do is fire this guy up. So, oh, by the way, on these new printers, it's amazing the amount of pieces of cardboard, and plastic, and tape, and chunks of styrofoam and everything you have to remove. Take your time, read the instructions before you plug it in, or you might make smoke. Yeah, I've done it. Anyway, once everything's plugged in and set up properly, make sure that whatever type of printer you have, if it is a LaserJet, make sure it's got a toner cartridge in there. If it's an inkjet, make sure it's got ink, whatever it needs, so it's ready to go. I even throw paper in them as a start, and I've thrown a few sheets of paper in this guy. I've got 'em turned on, and I've got the USB plugged in. It's got a crazy USB-B connection on here. And what I'm gonna do, I want you to watch the screen and I'm gonna plug this in. I've got device manager running. Ah, fantastic. Do you see it right there? The nice part about all operating systems today is that they are really good at recognizing printers and putting in the right device drivers. Both Windows and Mac OS do an amazing job. You just plug it in, they recognize the device. 9 times outta 10, they've already got the driver ready, but if it's a really new device, they'll automatically go online, find it, and it just goes. On those rare occasions where you have trouble, usually this is where we head over to the individual company's website. So this is a Brother MFC-J895DW. Let's check out the Brother website. Okay, so I went over to the Brother website, it's got a full driver and package. Most of the time, I'm gonna go ahead and download this stuff, and I'll do a little bit of reading as well. Keep in mind that these devices have firmware. Firmware updates are really common for printers, and it's something that a lot of people forget to do. So not only are we setting up the firmware on the actual printer itself, but we're always making sure we have the latest device drivers. Look, all device drivers have a number associated with them. And if by some chance, Windows has a newer device driver than what you just downloaded, it will stop, and it'll go, oh, oh, wait a minute, wait a minute. You have a newer device driver installed already, I'll just go ahead and stop. The other nice part about going online is that invariably these have wonderful utilities. Some kind of utility that pops up and says you're running low on ink, or the utility that says, hmm, you have a paper jam, or something that keeps you, so you can actually look at your computer, go, oh, I have a problem on my printer, and then you can jump up and check out what the problem is. So I still, even though Windows will find the right driver, I'll still download all these extra toys 'cause, well, I just love thousands of things in my task bar making lots of information for me. No, I'm teasing, but I do like those utilities. Okay, so once we're installed, life's pretty good. What I wanna do now is talk about some of the properties that you're gonna be seeing on a printer. Now, before we go any further, the one thing you need to understand is that for every operating system, you have two very distinct functions. You have the printer itself and then you have the spooler. The spooler is just the associated software that stores the print jobs. Especially if a printer's being shared, you got 50 people sending a print job to one printer, the spooler cues everything in a nice order, and shoots out the print jobs in the order that they were actually supplied. And that's why you always see two of things. Let's take a look at device manager one more time. So if we take a look at device manager here's the new printer I just installed, but then take a look at these print queues. Wow, Mike has a lot of printers, and I do, but most importantly, notice that there's a print queue associated with that printer I just installed. Okay, so first of all, if you wanna get some information about the actual printer itself, you can come in here and take a look at properties. You usually don't do a whole lot here. Normally you're gonna go over to devices and printers. However, there are a couple of things I wanna show you. Number one, if there's any details about the device. And number two, and this one's great, this is a tool, this is basically event viewer for this particular device. So if there's any issues, this is often a good place to take a quick peek and go, hmm, is there any problems right here? Okay, let's go back over to settings, and we'll go over to devices and printers. Yes, I have a lot of devices, and holy smoke, do I have a lot of printers. I use every single one of them, thank you. So let's get this closed up. So what I wanna do is take a look. Here's my printer, so I'm gonna right click. In particular, we have printing preferences and printer properties. So first of all, let's look at printer properties. Printer properties defines actually the name of the printer. You can change this. If I have 17 of these Brother MFC-J895DWs, I might wanna give it names, for example, Mike's Brother printer, or something like that, especially if we get into sharing. A big buddy right here is print test page. If you ever just wanna see if the printer's working, you can go ahead and print a test page, and it's a great way to verify the printer's in good order. Sharing, we're gonna save for other episodes. Ports, these are how all of these are connected. Right now I'm connected via USB. So you can see I've got a USB connection for this particular printer. Now we also have advanced, so example, if I want to have it certain times a day, I can handle how the spooler works with the printer itself. I can, for example, this is a little trick I do a lot if I'm the only person using it, I'll just go print directly to the printer. As long as I'm the only person, this can often be extremely convenient. Okay, then we have things like color management, where I can actually configure all the different color features for this particular device. This also allows me to tie my color of my monitor to the actual printer itself. We'll get out of those. And the one I really like is printing preferences. Alright, so printing preferences basically defines how I like to do my printing. For example, media type. On this particular inkjet, it will actually print differently depending on the type of paper I provide, or it will give me different types of options in other places. Like for example, color mode, which is very popular. I can also set my orientation here, number of copies. Now, collation, notice that that's turned off. That's because this guy doesn't have a collator built into him. You're gonna see a lot of more advanced, bigger printers that are gonna have two features that everybody loves. Number one is collation, where it'll have a bunch of trays, like 30 little trays, and it'll print 1, 2, 3, 1, 2, 3, 1, 2, 3, and have 'em nice, ready. In fact, there's even printers that'll staple 'em for you. And the other one is duplex. Duplex simply means to print on both sides. Now, this little guy has neither of those functions, but I'm gonna show you there are ways to get around that. Let's keep taking a look at some more printing preferences. The other big one I like is maintenance. So I can actually go to the printer itself, but I can even go here and set up different maintenance modes for this particular little inkjet. So you say to yourself, well, Mike, I like that idea of collation. So we can actually get around that a little bit in software. So here's good old Microsoft Word, and if you take a look, I've already hit print. And it's going to say, for example, do you see where it says collated here? I can actually electronically make it print 1, 2, 3, 1, 2, 3, 1, 2, 3. Or I could have it print all the pages one, all the pages two, all the pages three, however I might wanna do that. And then I can even set up duplexing here. Notice it has an option for manually print on both sides. It's actually a pretty convenient function. There is no duplexing function built into this printer. So Word will go ahead and print page 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, get all the print job, then it's gonna stop, and go, take everything you printed, flip it over, put it back into the hopper, and then it'll go ahead and print 2, 4, 6, 8. So you can duplex even on a non-duplex-capable device. Okay, now the only other thing I wanna take a look at is the actual spooler itself. So here I am in printers and scanners, and I can open the queue right here, and it will actually show me my print spooler. Now, right now, I don't have any print jobs in here. However, there are some things I most certainly can do. For example, I can pause the printing for everything. Let's say I'm out of paper, or something like that, most printers will stop and holler, but if you needed to pause the printing, you could do it here. I could even cancel all documents if I needed to. Equally, I can take individual documents and pause them, or cancel them, or restart them as I need to. The A+ obsesses over the print spooler, make sure that you're aware that you can do this within the spooler. However, here's the trick. You actually have to have permissions to be able to control the print spooler. So basic users, for example, can control their own print jobs, but you're gonna have to be more like a super user or an administrator to be able to cancel or pause anybody's print job, or the printer itself. There's a big difference. So if you run into a question where it says you can't pause a print job, it's because you don't have enough permissions. Alright, now, I had a lot of different stuff in there. What I wanna do is take a moment, and I wanna show you a whole bunch of stuff that are really virtual printers. So I'm gonna go into control panel, and I'm gonna go over to devices and printers. So once again, here's all my devices. So what I want you to notice it where it says print to PDF, XPS Document Writer, print to OneNote, and then send to OneNote. Do you see all of these? These are virtual printers. Basically, what's gonna happen is if I print to this particular one, it's just gonna make a PDF file. This is going to make a XPS-style document. This is going to send it to my Microsoft OneNote. So these aren't actual printers, they just send it to different types of files or different types of locations that I might need. So while we're in here, I'm gonna show you one more biggie. I'm gonna right click on this, set as default printer. So basically, what's gonna happen here is I'm going to set this to okay, and now do you see the green little checkbox? That means Windows will print to him by default. Now in Windows, I don't know if you saw, there was a little thing going, I thought you wanted me to take care of this. Windows by default wants to pick your default printer, and it uses a pretty straightforward criteria. It will try to print to the printers that it sees first, a local printer first, then network printers, and then to a virtual printer. I personally find that irritating because it'll suddenly, if I say, I got a problem with this printer, and it suddenly starts saying, give me the name of the PDF file and I'll put it on your desktop. No, no, no, no, no, let me fix this, and then I'll go ahead and take care of that. So me, I always set my default printer, and that's exactly where you do it is from your control panel. Okay, so these are the basics of installing a local printer. Keep in mind, at this point, the only person who can use this printer is me. If you want more people to use it, we're gonna have to talk about sharing printers, and that's in another episode.