-: So I've got this little inkjet that's connected directly to my system here via a USB connection. Now at this point in time, nobody else can use this printer. The printer is a local connection and anything that's local to your computer, be it a printer or be it a folder, has to actually be shared. Now, we've discussed sharing folders in other episodes. This time let's go ahead and share a printer. So to do that, let's head over to the control panel and let's take a look at my devices and printers. Alright, so here's my happy little printer. It's works great on my own local system but I want other people to enjoy it. So I'm gonna go through the process of sharing this printer. So I go to printer properties and we click on sharing and what I'm gonna do is say share this printer and I get this big long name. I could leave it like that if I wanted but this is gonna be showing up on the network so I wanna give it something short. In this case, I'm just gonna use brother this is really a matter of personal choice. I could render the print jobs on client computers. In other words, if they send a print job it first gets turned into a print job on the client computer and then sent directly to my printer. Or I can actually act as a print server here and handle it and you can actually see it go through my own spooler. I leave that on and obviously I do wanna list this to the directory because I want other people to get ahold of it. You also have this choice for additional drivers. So you can see right now the only driver that's going to be passed out when people access the shared printer is for a 64 bit Windows. Now what if I had 32 bit windows or what if I had a raspberry pi or something that used an arm processor? Well then I'd want to go ahead and check these. I only have 64 bits, so I'm gonna leave that as it is and I'm gonna hit okay. The moment I've done this I have now offered this guy out to the world. By default, windows is gonna set these up so that anyone can access it. You can actually see this. If we take a look at the printer properties, again first of all you'll see I've got a little share icon there. Lets me know it's being shared. So if we go into the printer properties you can go underneath security and what you can see here and this is the big one, right now it's set up for everyone is allowed to print to this. However, there's also some other options here. There's manage this printer and there is manage documents. Those are just for the spooler. The idea here is that if something goes wrong with the printer, I've got 400 documents in the spooler I can go ahead and delete those documents if I can manage the printer. If I'm managing documents then I can do stuff like pick individual documents and I can pause them or delete them or whatever I wanna do. So make sure that those options are there if you want them. Generally I just go ahead and set. Everyone can print to it but only people who have administrative rights on this local machine can actually deal with this. If you're on a domain you have to set this all up for domain users, and again by default it does a pretty good job automatically. Alright, so we've got it shared, well now the fun part is, well let's go access somebody's shared printer. So I've got another Windows machine here let's take a look at him. So now that I'm on a different system it's time to go access that shared printer. Now I can do that from devices and printers but I can easily also do that within settings. So I can come in here, go down to printers and scanners and add a printer, a scanner. Now if I'm lucky, it might find it A lot of times it doesn't. I don't panic about that. So the printer wasn't listed. I don't worry too much about that. So what I can do here is I can go ahead and select a shared printer by name. So what I can do is type in backslash backslash, and then this is actually the name of the computer that is sharing that particular printer. And then the shared name of the printer itself is just called Brother and I hit next and I have successfully installed it. I can even print a test page or anything that I want. So setting up a share in a Windows network is actually pretty trivial. We just go ahead and type in the share name. Now the problem that a lot of people have is when they're working with printers they kind of treat it like when they're accessing a shared folder. So what they'll do is they'll go into your network and then they'll click around and those shared printers will show up in your network but you can't really access 'em. What you can do is you could right click 'em there and say I want to access this shared printer and it'll go through the same process. The downside to sharing and you've gotta be careful with this is that there are some serious privacy risks. The privacy risks really boil down to a couple of things. Number one keep in mind that this is more than just a printer. It's actually a multi-function device. Things like faxes and it'll print to a PDF or all types of things like this. It'll send something to Google Drive have the risk of putting things in a position where anybody might be able to look at it. So that's something you just need to think about in terms of how you're setting things up for your network. For example, if you don't want people setting things up to Google Drive then you might wanna have to set this printer up to say turn off that option, which this guy can do. So be aware of those types of features that come into play. Also, remember is that you have to have user authentication on the device if you wanna work with the print spooler, so again, be careful with these questions that are gonna come up where it's like you know, Janet's trying to stop this print job. How does she do it? Or she opens up the spooler and everything's grayed out. What's the problem? She doesn't have the right permissions.