-: Well, folks, once again, it's time for your buddy, the great Mike Strami, to help you through the many A+ printer troubleshooting issues that you're gonna be seeing both on the exam and in the real world. So bring 'em on, guys. Number one, unable to install printer. That one's easy. You don't have rights to install that printer. Somebody at the administrative level has set it up so that you cannot install the printer. I guess the other possibility is, is there is no printer to install. Somebody hasn't shared the printer or it's a network printer that's not even on the network. So the being unable to install a printer is just a symptom for you pointing at administrative shares, making sure the printer that you want to share is actually where you think it is, the right IP address, the right UNC, whatever it might be. And also, make sure that it actually exists and it's turned on and little things like that. Okay, no connectivity. Yeah, that one happens a lot. What we're probably talking about here is that we have a printer that we've used plenty of times before and suddenly it's not there. And that's probably your big clue right there. Are you physically connected to it? If it's a network printer, is it getting good DHCP? Are other people able to connect to it? A lot of times, having a printer that you can't connect to is a sign of a generic network problem and has absolutely nothing to do with the printer itself. The other big thing to talk about is anytime you run into a printer problem, is that you go through the process of what I call a mental reinstall. So you go in, reinstall the printer, make sure that it shows up in device manager, make sure that the printer queue shows up in device manager. Make sure that you can actually send a print test page to it, make sure it's working okay. And if you have problems like that, you go through a uninstall process. One of the big things to look for is the device driver itself. In particular, if you've just done an update or you've tried something on your printer and it's not working, roll it back. People don't think about this, but you can roll back device drivers for printers just like you can for video cards or anything else. Okay, what's next? Access denied. Yep, another administrative issue. Remember, you actually have to have permission to print to shared printers and if you don't have that permission you're not gonna have any options there. Also, access denied will show up if you go into a print spooler, you try to delete a job and you don't have those permissions. Now what I wanna do is move away from problems that are actually on the computer and talk about problems that actually show up on the physical printer itself. You can get a lot of great information just by observing a printer and taking a look at what's happening around it. Number one, no image on printer display. (laughs) Okay, is it turned on, number one. Number two, is the printer in some form of sleep mode or is there some kind of keystroke where you had been administratively locked out of that particular printer? So if the printer's up and running and you don't have a display, you could conceivably have a bad display. It does happen and you could even get spare parts for stuff like that. All right, paper trouble. Paper not feeding and paper jam. To me, that's the exact same problem. What's taking place is you've got a problem with your pickup rollers or your separate pads. In these types of situations, these things wear out and you've got to go ahead and get new ones. There's always gonna be a maintenance kit to take care of that. Also, keep in mind that humidity is the great killer of paper. Now here in southern Texas, we have lots of humidity, and we have to be very, very careful about our paper usage. In fact, we actually will store our paper separately or try to at least keep it within the reams because once this humidity hits it, we've got trouble. Low memory errors. Okay, so we're probably talking about laser printers there. All laser printers have memory. In fact, they all use RAM. There's a big market for older types of RAM, like, old school SD RAM and DDR2, not because today's modern computers use it, but today's modern laser printers still use older types of RAM. If you're getting low memory errors, you've got some choices, you can reduce the resolution, try to print instead of 1200 by 1200, try something like 300 by 300. Or you can go out and buy more RAM And by the way, don't go buy specialty RAM, Hewlett Packard will sell you the exact same RAM you can pick up at your local computer store for five times the price. Just use regular RAM, all of the manufacturers will specify the type of RAM they need, go pick that stuff up. Error codes. Error codes, you mean like PC load letter? All right, error codes can be a bit of a challenge on printers because they often use very strange language. The best thing you can do with error code is first of all, say, "Hooray" because error codes help us find problems. The far worse one is like that when the display doesn't show up at all, those are a lot more scary. You might have to do a little research on what the error code means, but invariably it's gonna mean things like, for example, PC load letter stands for Paper Cartridge load letter, you're out of paper. So just learn your error codes and you'll be fine. Now, there are a whole bunch of other questions on the exam that don't really talk about what's happening on your systems. They don't really talk about what's happening on the printer. They're talking about what happens on the paper? And the different types of outputs you can get and what to do with them. So to deal with that, the paper whisperer. Now, I know I make jokes about this, but the reality is, is that if you know how printers work, when you get bad printouts, it's just a matter of looking at them and they usually make sense. So I'm gonna go through the examples for the exam and I'll show you how easy this really is. Garbled characters on paper. Garbled characters on paper pretty much guarantee are going to be bad drivers or corrupted drivers. If you're trying to send the wrong thing to the wrong printer, you're gonna have trouble. The other place this can take take place is if you send a bad print job, for example, there's some corruption in the print job and it gets to the printer, and it just sits there and corrupts it. You send in another print job it's gonna come out all garbled and strange. Usually what you're gonna have to be doing there is you're gonna have to dump the print job out of the spooler, reset the printer, hard reset, get it back online, and then try again. Also, if you really needed to, this is another example where rolling back a driver might be necessary, but I would doubt it. Vertical lines on page, that's a good one. When you see vertical lines on page, first of all, I pretty much guarantee we're talking laser printers here because it's a big issue with them. A vertical line on a page for a laser printer almost always points to there's foreign matter on your optically sensitive roller. You'll get little pieces of paper, little pieces of string that will actually wrap around it and that's gonna corrupt the image. And every time you print something you're gonna get a line there. And the answer is you yank the toner cartridge and you throw it in the garbage. It is impossible to take like a pair of scissors or something and try to cut away that debris. The thing is simply too sensitive and just touching it with a piece of metal can usually force it to never be able to really print properly again. What else? Color prints in the wrong print color. I'm gonna point to driver on that one, CompTIA. The other possibility is that I've lost one of my colors, so this could be any color printer, and I've lost one of my colors and all of a sudden it can't make... Instead of purple which would be two of the colors, it can't make one, the color comes out funny. That's probably gonna be pointing to something like that. So I'm gonna say either we've got a driver issue or we have a dead ink in whatever we might be using. Printing blank pages. Just about any technology is gonna print a blank page if it has a physical problem. A thermal printer where the heating element is no longer working is gonna print blank pages. If you've got a laser printer and the primary corona is dead, it's gonna print blank pages. So it's a matter of thinking about the technology and then making a decision on that. Streaks. Now, when we're talking about streaks what I think CompTIA is trying to say is, that we have things that are streaking this way and that way, and that is a very much an inkjet issue and it happens all the time. When you have little jets that are beginning to clog, bits of ink will form around the outside of them and that ink will end up just getting stuck and pushing across the paper. Usually, it's time to go ahead and go into a maintenance mode on that inkjet printer and start cleaning it up. Faded prints, that could be anything. If it's a laser printer, you're probably low on toner. Give that toner a shake, see if it'll run a little bit longer but put a new toner cartridge in there, you cheapskate. If it's an impact printer, your ribbon's probably running out. Also, keep in mind with impact printers, is that most of the ribbons are continuous, so they'll just keep running and running, and it just keeps getting lighter and lighter until you replace it. If it's an inkjet, that could be a little bit tougher, but again, you would probably see clogged jets, although those jets would probably have to be fairly evenly clogged, unless it was a black and white where that might come up. Ghost images. Ghost images happen a lot on laser printers more than anything else. If you remember the laser printing process and if you wanna pass the A+, you will. One of the steps that I added was called cleaning. So one of the last steps is there's a rubber thing that just rubs against the optically sensitive drum, pushing off any residual toner. So if I start to see ghost images, it's probably from the previous cycle and that little rubber piece has broken, again just replaced the toner. Toner not fused to paper. Guess what? There's something wrong with your fuser assembly. Fuser assemblies are usually easily replaceable. Go ahead and replace one. And last, crease paper. Crease paper usually takes place because your pickup rollers, one is in good shape and the other isn't, and it starts to pull at angles causing creases. Put a maintenance kit on it, and you'll get rid of that problem.