-: Have you ever noticed that there's no run button on a computer? I mean, sure, there's an on and off button, but the only thing the on and off button does is provides electricity to the computer. If you gotta think about this, there has to be something that says CPU start running programming and that's done by the CPU itself. Built into the back of every CPU is one little wire called the power good wire. And as soon as that one wire gets enough voltage, the CPU starts running and the first thing it's gonna do is it's gonna go talk to the BIOS and it's gonna run a little piece of BIOS known as the Power-On Self-Test or POST. Now the Power-On Self-Test is actually a pretty simple program. It kind of broadcasts out throughout the motherboard, it says, if you can hear me, check yourself out. So all of the memory controllers and your RAM and USB controllers and hard drive controllers and whatever you might have on your motherboard goes through its own internal diagnostic. And assuming it does the diagnostic properly and it checks itself out and everything's okay, it responds back to the CPU, says, I'm great. And then your computer boots up. You can actually tell when a computer's booting up properly by one little sound. So I'm gonna make one little sound for you to hear. Listen. (computer beeps) There you go. Did you hear that little beep? Basically what's happened right there is our system has booted up. It's gone through the Power-On Self-Test. Everything has reported back good. And that little beep comes from a speaker. Let me make sure you know where the speaker is. On this particular system, this speaker is right here. So no, this is not your beautiful 5.1 surround system that you listen to movies on. This is a simple little speaker and that's about its only job is to report on POSTs. Now that's great, but think about what a POST is. A POST is before the operating system or anything kicks in, a diagnostic. So what if something's wrong? Well, if something's wrong, your computer has to report to you, a human being that there's a problem. Now, keep in mind that the POST is not only gonna be checking really core stuff like it checks the CPU itself, it checks the RAM, it's gonna check any chips that are on there, but it's even gonna check video 'cause you need at least rudimentary video so you can boot up. So what if the video isn't working? Well, that's where we have what we call beep codes. So beep codes are the most primitive type of POST error codes you can get. There's not a lot of them left but they all sound a little bit different. There's a few of them that are kind of famous. For example, the famous, I don't have a video card, which sounds something like this. (intermittent beep) And there's also the famous, I can't find any RAM on my computer, which sounds kind of like this. (intermittent beep) So when you hear errors like this, what's happening is we're so early into the POST that we haven't even tested the video yet, so it has to go through these beeps. Okay, now let's assume that we've got at least to the point where the video is coming up. There's a whole bunch of stuff that once the video's kicked in, we want to still get a POST error code but just put it up on the screen. So in order to see some of these, let's take a look at my screen real quick. So here's my system as it's just booting up. So at the top, here's my brand name of bias, American Megatrends, and if you look, there's a lot of information in here. For example, it's telling me about what type of chips are on my motherboard. It tells me what kind of CPU is on this system. It tells me what speed it's running at. It tells me what memory I have. It's got all of the different types of boot devices up on the screen. So that alone gives me a lot of information. If I had some problems, like for example, this is one of my favorite POST error codes that show up, it'll sit there and say, no keyboard found, press any key to continue. So if you see an error on that screen it'll show up right there. Okay, so we have beep codes and we have display codes that show up in plain English on the screen. What if the system is in the middle of a POST and it's so much in trouble that it can't even do any of that? In fact, this is a big problem, particularly when you're installing, building up a new system. You got new CPU and RAM in there, you're buckling up, you put in the power supply, and you fire it up and nothing happens. No sound is coming from your little speaker, nothing's showing up on the screen, and you're like, do I have a bad CPU, or whatever it might be? In those types of situations, we turn to something called a POST card. So I've got a couple of examples right here. Let me show these to you. So these are POST cards. All POST cards will use a hexadecimal two-digit readout and you just plug them into a system and you watch what shows up. So what I wanna do right now is this motherboard is actually pretty cool because it has a built-in POST card and this is a big enthusiast one. So what I'm gonna do, and we're gonna watch this on the camera here, I'm gonna fire this thing up, and we're literally gonna watch the built-in POST card work. So let's watch this. Okay, watch the screen there, folks. Here I'm gonna start her up. There you go. So what you're actually watching, these two hexadecimal characters that this thing just reboots a couple of times. Don't worry about that. It'll come on. So as you're actually watching this two-digit hexadecimal, you're actually watching the POST itself as the system boots up. The problem we have with these two-digit hexadecimal values is we don't know what they mean, right? So all of a sudden, let's say you're booting this system up and it goes to 2B and it's just sitting there at 2B and you're like, what does 2B mean? So what we do, I still wanted to do that to be or not to be thing there. Okay, so what we'll do is usually on the motherboard book is they're gonna have a thing that will show you all of these codes. So let me bring this over here so you guys can see this, on this particular motherboard, the ASUS brand, they call these Q codes, I just call them POST error codes. So you'll see that there's all of these different kinds of errors. So for example, 2B to 2F means memory initialization. So 2B means a memory initialization. What that's gonna do for me at least, is I'm gonna go, okay, maybe there's a problem with RAM. Get the idea? A lot of POST error codes can be very, very confusing. The other thing you gotta remember, especially something that's got a built-in POST card like this, once the operating system kicks in, anything that you read on that POST code, it's gibberish. It doesn't mean anything. The POST codes are only valid as the computer's booting up. Once you see your Windows screen or your Linux screen, then you just ignore that stuff. Anyway, so with a 2B error, I know it says memory initialization, I'm gonna check the RAM, maybe just reseed it, maybe try to see if I've got a bad sticker RAM in there. But these POST codes can be absolutely magical, in particular, when you're just trying to boot a system up and you get no sound, no nothing, they're absolutely fantastic. Be careful with POST cards. You can buy POST cards out there in the world today. They're very inexpensive. Now, of course, you can buy a motherboard with a built-in one, but that's me, you know Mr. Vegas. But if you want to, you can go buy yourself a little POST card. They snap into an expansion slot. They only cost maybe about 30 bucks. The reason I'm bringing this up is there are companies out there, and I'm not naming any names who will sell you a POST diagnostic card and a book this thick for 300 bucks. You don't need that stuff. You can go online and just type in POST card and you might have to go through a few POST cards before you get to the Power-On Self-Test cards and about 30 bucks, slap one in. I use my POST cards probably once a year, twice a year, and they're absolutely fantastic. Make sure you get yourself one. You'll be glad you did.