-: When we're buying a power supply, we buy it based on watts. Now, before I get into a lot of detail on watts I want to kind of correct something I said that wasn't a hundred percent true earlier when we talk about electricity we always say volts, times, amps equals watts. Well, that is absolutely true, but only in a perfect world where we have 100% perfect efficiency. what's really happening is that power supplies like anything on earth, are not perfectly efficient. So when you plug into your wall outlet only a percentage of that electricity that you're getting from the wall outlet is being converted into the DC voltages that your PC needs. The rest is lost through heat, friction other things like that that prevent you getting all the electricity goodness that you need. And this has been a big problem with power supplies over the years. So first of all when you're looking at power supplies in the store you can see they've all got these wattage ratings on 'em. So on these two in particular, you could see one of these is a 460 watt and the other one is 750 watt. So the big first question I get from everybody is, well, Mike, how much wattage do I need? And I refuse to answer that question. In fact, you will not be quizzed on that question on the CompTIA exams because everybody understands that this is a very subtle question. There are wonderful websites that you can go to all over the internet that help you figure this out. So basically, how much does your motherboard need? What kind of video cards are you using? That's a big one in terms of your total wattage. How many hard drives do you have installed on your system? It's surprising how little wattage that most systems need today unless you're doing something like, for example using a really high-end processor or using really, really high-end video cards. So don't worry about the wattage you need for your system in terms of a A+ plus question, but do be aware that that can be an issue for anybody buying a system. And the answer is do like I do, go online find one of these wattage calculators and then make your best guess, add 10, 20%. So that's the other thing to keep in mind. So let's just say you go through these calculations and you decide that your system needs 700 watts of power. Well, you're only gonna need 700 watts of power when everything's running. With a power supply he can provide up to these wattages but the vast majority of the time on your computer unless you're constantly playing really high-end video games and constantly accessing your hard drive is only gonna be a percentage of that particular number. So what, it's always fun, guys like me I wanna buy like super high-end wattage power supplies. Like right now about the highest commonly found power supply would be be about 1500 watts. And they're huge and they look cool I guess but I probably never ever need that kind of wattage. So the important thing to take from this is that get the wattage that you need. Give yourself a little buffer. The one problem that you can run into is not having enough. So don't be afraid to turn that up a little bit. And if you're like me I buy just almost nothing pretty much but 750 to 1500 watt power supplies and I've never seemed to run into that problem. Okay, so going back to the efficiency issue. Now, this is a big problem on older power supplies like this one right here. If I had even a 60% efficiency, that would be good. So this one was rated at 575 watts. So at 575 watts that is only at, you ready, room temperature, okay? And I assure you that inside this power supply after running for 30 seconds it's a lot hotter than room temperature and heat reduces efficiency in a big, big way. Also, in terms of the quality of electronics can be a big issue. And the bottom line is, is that if this thing's only putting out 60% efficiency, probably gonna be just a little bit over 300 watts when everything's hot and it's working really hard and when it's at less than optimal situation. So you need to be careful with that. In fact, it was such a big problem that the power supply industry on its own came up with what they call the 80 plus rating system. If you look right here, you'll see that it has an 80 plus rating on there. The 80 plus ratings are an absolute godsend for people like me who want good high efficiency power supplies. Now, there's a number of rankings within this 80 plus. Let me show you those. So if you take a look at this chart, you can see we have a number of different types of 80 plus. So at the very base we have what's just known as 80 plus. And if you take a look, you'll see it's talking about the percentage of rated loads. So that means if I'm only using 10% of the watts that this guy could provide to me, or 20% or 50 or all the way up to a 100% what is my efficiency? So with 80 plus, which is the most base one they have they guarantee that you get an 80% efficiency. And as you see, we go higher with our efficiencies, bronze silver, gold, platinum, and titanium, where the efficiencies continue to improve. Keep that in mind when you're choosing a power supply you need to make sure that you've got one that, whatever it's peak wattage it shows, take a look at the 80 plus efficiency, and that's the real wattages that you're going to get out of that system. Thank goodness for 80 plus, it's really made our lives a lot easier when it comes to choosing power supplies. Now for me, the only other big issue when it comes to choosing a power supply is going to be the modular versus the soldered. With modular where we can plug in and choose our different types of cables. I really like those, although many people claim that you actually reduce efficiency. That that connection knocks your efficiency down a little bit. So the purists say that you should always use the soldered permanent connections versus the modular because they're more efficient. Me personally, I love the convenience of modular power supplies, and if I lose 0.005% efficiency I'm gonna be perfectly happy with that. The last thing I wanna mention when it comes to power supplies is that the standard ATX size covers the vast majority of systems. Even a lot of the small form factor systems still fit that full size power supply that you've seen. However, do be aware that there are smaller power supplies out there. They still are underneath the ATX standard but they're for very, very small form factor systems. There's a bunch of 'em on there, they're not on the exam. But be aware, if you're looking for a small system there could often be a smaller sized ATX power supply that will be perfect for your needs.