-: Okay, pick a drive, any drive, whatever you want, okay. Now the reason I have multiple drives in front of me right now is because a long time ago, disk drives were expensive. I know today you go to a store and you find a disk drive for $300 and you think that's expensive. I'm talking about early first generation disk drives that cost millions of dollars. So, after a while, as hard drives started to get smaller, a bunch of guys in Berkeley kind of got together. You know it's Berkeley, so they're groovy. And they're like, you know we could have some really cool synergy if we instead of using one drive for anything used multiple drives that acted as a group or an array to do groovy stuff, right? And what these guys came up with was a type of drive organization known as RAID. You see, the idea behind RAID is to provide two nice things. Nice thing number one is speed and nice thing number two is data redundancy. So these guys in Berkeley, they came up with what we call RAID levels that define how you get drives to work together to do stuff. So these RAIDs have things like RAID 0 and RAID 5. And what I wanna do in this episode is go through popular RAID levels, so you conceptualize what RAID can do for us. Let's take a look. So the first RAID level I wanna talk about is called RAID 0 or striping. RAID 0 or striping requires an absolute minimum of two drives, although you can add more if you want. The idea behind striping is let's say I've got a huge Microsoft Word document that I wanna save. So striping works by, we take a piece of the file and we store it on the first drive, then we take another piece and we store it on the second drive, and then we take another piece and put it back on the first drive, and then we take another piece and put it on the second drive. And we keep going like that until the file's saved. The beautiful thing about striping is that we're having two drives accepting the data. So with RAID 0, we get speed. The downside to RAID 0 is that you don't have any data safety at all. If either one of these drives die, you're going to lose everything, not just that Word document but anything else you might have stored on those drives. So let's take a look at the next step up in RAID, RAID 1. With RAID 1, better known as mirroring, we use two drives. Now you can also use four, but we're gonna keep it simple for the moment and say we only can do two drives for this. So RAID 1, also known as mirroring, works something like this. Let's take that exact same document except this time we're gonna take the first little piece and we're gonna put one copy here, and we're gonna put another copy here. And then we take the next piece and we put another copy here and another copy here. And the next piece. And we just keep going until the entire document is saved. So with this, we get redundancy. So RAID 1 or mirroring provides safety. However, in most cases, it actually slows us down, because you're asking your hard drive controller to write the exact same piece of data twice. So what we wanna do now is we want, we'd like the redundancy, but we'd like to have a little speed at the same time. And while we're at it, I don't wanna use too many drives if I can help it. So the RAID guys went through a number of other types of RAID with names like, RAID 2, RAID 3, RAID 4. And in my entire life, I have never seen a commercial product that uses those RAID levels except once, and I had a lot more hair back then. So the next really popular RAID level that they came up with was called RAID 5, and that's striping with parity. Let's see how that works. RAID level 5 requires a minimum of three drives although you can use more if you want to. And it works something like this. Using that same document, what we're gonna do is we're gonna take this first piece and we're gonna put it on the first drive. Then we're gonna take this second piece and then we're gonna put it on the second drive. Except now we're gonna do something really interesting. Using interesting binary math, we can in essence, multiply these together and create what's we call a parity value that's the exact same size as these first two pieces. By doing this, if any one of these drives die, we can on the fly and automagically using reversing the math can recreate this type of data. So we just keep going. We take another piece and we're gonna put it over here. And then we take another piece, put it over here. Go through the math mumbo jumbo, then we create another parity. RAID 5 or striping with parity has been popular for decades. The only downside to RAID 5 is that you can lose exactly one drive. If you lose more than one drive, you're not gonna be able to rebuild the data, but at least with this, you get pretty good speed and you get redundancy of your data. So RAID 0, 1, and 5 were the big popular ones for a long time, but today we see a lot more interesting ones, like for example, RAID 6. RAID level 6 requires a minimum of four drives. And the idea here, let's go ahead and use our same document. Except this time what we're gonna do is we're gonna copy one piece of the document, copy another piece of the document, and then we go through some absolutely fascinating math mumbo jumbo and absolutely generate two parities for those two pieces of data. RAID 6 is more popular these days than RAID 5 for one simple reason. When we're doing RAID 6, we can lose up to two drives before we lose any data. So it's a little bit more expensive in terms of the amount of real estate how many drives you need, but you get more redundancy because you can lose up to two drives and get where you want to go. Now, these are wonderful ways to do stuff, but there's been a few times where we actually use multiple levels of RAID all at the same time. And we call these like RAID 10 or RAID 1+0 or RAID 1 0, or alternatively RAID 0+1. These are combining striping and mirroring in different interesting ways. Let's go ahead and start with RAID 10. With RAID 10 what we do is striping mirrors. So what we have, and you have to have a minimum of four drives to do this. Well technically you have to have two pairs. So right here, we've got one mirrored pair. So this is running RAID 1, and here we have another mirrored pair also running RAID 1. However in this case, what happens is, we take one piece of data coming off and we put a copy here and here. So we've mirrored it. And then we take another piece and we are striping it across to these two guys And then we just keep going and we making mirrors, and then we stripe it across to the other mirrored pair. So these are mirrored, and then we stripe the two mirrored pairs. The nice part about RAID 10 is I can lose one of the mirrored pairs on each side and I'm still in good shape. The downside is, if I lose one complete mirrored pair, I'm in trouble because we've lost half of the stripe. So an alternative way to do this is to spin it around and do RAID 0+1, which means to mirror some stripes. RAID 0+1 also requires a minimum of two pairs. Now in this case what we're gonna do is we're gonna mirror the stripes. So this is a striped set. So we're gonna take a piece of data and we're gonna put it on the first one. Then we're gonna take another piece of data and put it on the second one. And then we're gonna take this data and bring it over here as a mirror. So we have two stripes and then we mirror them . And we just keep going through, grab another piece, grab another piece, mirror that identically until we're all the way through. So with RAID 0+1, we can lose one complete striped pair on either side, and we're okay. The downside would be is if we lost one on each side, we wouldn't be able to rebuild the mirror and we'd be in trouble. So do we do RAID 1+0 or RAID 0+1? You know what, it's your choice. I'm just here to teach you the different kinds of RAID. Okay, but realistically, we have all of these different ways to do RAID, the problem that we run into is, well, how do you do it? I mean, it's nice Mike hear you talk about all these things, but how do we actually make it happen? Well, you have two choices here. Choice number one, you can do it through hardware. Now through hardware, we're talking about using dedicated controllers that are built into your motherboards or a card you can snap in and we hook our drives to that controller and we go, okay, we want you to be RAID 1 or RAID 5 or whatever it might be. So we go in and we configure that and this is often done through system setup or through an option on BIOS that gets set up. And then once it's set up in what we call an array, you fire up the operating system and the operating system just looks at it as a great big D drive or something like that. The other alternative is to do it through software usually through your operating system itself. Most operating systems support some levels of RAID built in. And in that case what you're gonna do is you're gonna run some kind of software within the operating system to set up the array and configure it the way you want. So we're gonna do both of those. Now there is one more type of RAID I wanna talk about. It doesn't really have a number per se associated with it and that is it's a more advanced type of RAID, They are called proprietary, well, I call them proprietary RAIDs. Companies like, for example, Synology, who sells these wonderful systems where I can put up 24 hard drives in one little box. and I can set it up as a RAID 0 or RAID 1, or RAID 5 or RAID 6 or Synology has their own proprietary format. You don't know really how it works and they're not gonna tell you, but it has some real efficiencies to it. Even Microsoft Windows with their popular storage spaces option allows people to set up a RAID array that isn't any one particular form of RAID but Microsoft's own built-in proprietary system.