-: Look, I know we live in a world where everybody thinks all of the internet is wireless, but the reality is that wired connections are the backbone of what makes our networking and the internet work. So in this episode I wanna go through the different types of cables and connectors you might run into for a network. Now the thing you need to understand is that right now the predominant networking is called Ethernet. So Ethernet defines our frames, Ethernet defines how the network cards work, but Ethernet also defines the type of cabling and connectors we use. Now there's also some alternatives to this. For example, DOCSIS, better known as cable modems, they have their connectors, and we'll touch on those as well. But what's important is that there are lots of different versions of Ethernet. So they have names like, for example, let me put one up on the screen, this is 10BASE-T. 10 stands for 10 megabits per second, BASE stands for baseband, and T stands for twisted pair, which we're gonna cover in a minute. So there's lots of these. For example, there's 1000BASE-T, and there's 10GBASE-T, which is 10 gigabit per second. As these different Ethernet standards come along, they need improvements in cabling in order to make sure that they run at their speed that they're capable of. So that's why we have so many different kinds of cables. Also keep in mind that for any one given speed of Ethernet, you might have one type of cable that uses copper, and another one that's fiber optic. You're not gonna be quizzed on what versions of Ethernet use what type of cabling, but you are gonna be quizzed on the types of cables and connectors, and that's what we're all about. So what I wanna start with is the old granddad, and still heavily used, and that is coaxial. And I've got a piece right here. Coaxial has got a good name because the connectors are axial. So we've got this big centerpiece, and then we've got a white insulator on this particular one, and then this outer cladding is actually a signal tool as well. When we talk about coaxial cable, we use what we call RG ratings. Now there is RG-58, RG-58 is a very old example, I'll show you that in a second, RG-59, and RG-6. RG-59 and RG-6 are used very much in the cabling world, both for video and for networking. So let's take a look at those guys. So this particular cable right here is RG-6. You can actually see where it says RG-6 right there. Now the type of connectors we use with these are called F-type connectors. They're a threaded connector, and anybody who's ever had cable television is probably familiar with threading these guys in. The only type of coaxial cable that was commonly used in the networking world, and notice I'm using the word was, was RG-58. RG-58 was a very thin type of coaxial cable, and it used a very unique connector called BNC. So if you see on this BNC connector, it's not threaded, you push it in and you twist, and it makes a connection. Coaxial cable's absolutely fantastic, but today the predominant type of cable is twisted pair. So what you're looking at here is twisted pair cabling. First of all, this is unshielded. You'll notice there's no metallic foil or anything in here. So we call this unshielded twisted pair, or UTP. This is by far the most common. We have four twisted pairs. The reason we put twists in there is that it helps propagate the signal better. If they weren't twisted together the distances we could run individual cables would be much shorter. In general all of these unshielded twisted pairs run at about 100 meters, which means from your switch to your individual computers is about 100 meters. Now there have been lots of different versions of unshielded twisted pair. Let me show you a couple of things here. First of all, here's an old granddad. What you're looking at here is telephone cable, and you'll see it only has two pairs, and it has this very interesting connector called RJ-11. So this was used for telephones. Now what I wanna do is compare that to this right here. And this is called RJ-45. So RJ-11 had four contacts. RJ-45 has eight contacts. Now that's gonna make sense if we have four twisted pair, that's eight different wires in there, and he can handle all eight of those. Now there's one other kind of twisted pair I wanna talk about, and this is just becoming a little bit more popular these days, and it's called shielded twisted pair. So shielded twisted pair is still twisted pair, it's still an RJ-45, but you see all this metallic stuff? This is shielding, and it doesn't just come here on the ends, it runs all the way through the cable, and it provides a lot of robust protection. For example, unshielded twisted pair, things like electric motors and fluorescent lights really make it not work well. Whereas shielded twisted pair can be a lot closer to those types of interference, and work just fine. Now if you wanna be the cool kid on the block, well, like me, Mike Myers, you use fiber optics these days. Fiber optic cable doesn't use electricity, it uses light. It's been around for a long, long time, and it's extremely popular when you're talking about 10 gigabit Ethernet situations or even faster. But even now we're seeing it actually come into people's homes. For example, for my house, if you wanna come over and visit, I don't have a cable modem, I have Ethernet coming into my house via a fiber connection, and it's running at one gigabit, neener, neener, neener. Let's talk about fiber a little bit. This is a fiber optic cable right here. This stuff right here, this is Kevlar, the same stuff they make bulletproof vests out of. So this orange is just a protective cover. The white stuff is cladding, which actually reflects, and it's so small, I couldn't even get it out. There is a tiny, tiny, the size of a human hair, piece of fiberglass fiber in there that actually propagates a light signal. Now there's two different kinds of ways to propagate a light signal. This orange stuff is called Multimode, and it uses LEDs to propagate the signal. There is another way called Singlemode which uses lasers to actually propagate over many, many kilometers of distance. So what I have here in front of me is Multimode, which is what you tend to see in a network environment. The last thing I wanna point out here are some of these types of connectors. So this is just a few examples of different types of connectors. Notice that they're all in pairs, and there's a reason for that. When you're working with fiber optic, one single wire generally only sends or receives. So usually when you have a fiber optic connection, you plug two of those in, one for send, and one for receive. All right, so for the exam, be ready to see pictures, and they're gonna say, what is this? And you need to be able to say things like RJ-45, and things like that. Now going back to unshielded twisted pair, there is another issue that comes into play, and that is what we call CAT ratings. CAT ratings are different types of what would look to me as the same kind of unshielded twisted pair, but they're designed to carry much more information. Let me show you what I mean. The four types of CAT rating that you're gonna be seeing on the exam are CAT 5, which is designed for 100 megabit per second network, CAT 5e, which originally was for 100, but now it works for one gigabit networks, CAT 6, which supports one gigabit networks at lengths up to about 100 meters. However, it will also support 10 gigabit up to around 55 meters. And then CAT 6a, which supports 10 gigabit at 100-meter segments. I promise you are going to see CAT rating questions on the exam. So just memorize the different ratings and their speeds. So the last thing I wanna talk about is what we call Plenum ratings. Now all of these different types of cabling are covered in plastic, and well plastic can burn. So we have different types of ratings which are based on their ability to resist fire. There are three ratings. The most basic one is PVC, or non-plenum. This is like the most burnable there is. It's very cheap, but it's not something that you would be comfortable with hiding up into a plenum. A plenum is that area between a drop ceiling and the actual ceiling, that little space where cables go. A plenum can also be if you have a raised floor, and the real floor where you're running the cables. So Plenum rating, 'cause we're gonna have a lot of wires in there, Plenum-rated cable is much more resistant to fire. And as a result of that, it's going to just not burn as well. There is an intermediate called Riser. Riser is actually designed when you're running cables between floors and things like that. And you would think to yourself, well Mike, wouldn't that wanna be even more fire resistant? It's not. It's actually not quite as fire resistant as Plenum, but certainly better than PVC. If you're gonna be installing your own cable, you have to check your local building codes, and make sure you're putting in the right stuff. It's probably gonna be Plenum, so go with it. Well, how do you know? Well, it's easy. (box squeaking) Read the box. If you look on here, it very clearly says non-Plenum cable. Cable comes in 1,000-foot lengths. So this is gonna be regular PVC, which is a great way to teach networking is why I keep this stuff around, but I probably wouldn't wanna put this into my ceilings or my floors, which is also interesting, and I want you to take a look right here. You see this? It says Category 6e+. That's not one of the options that we talked about, when we talk about CAT ratings. What we are looking at here is something that happens all the time with cable makers. They will actually come up with their own naming system, and then you actually have to go to the manufacturer and go, which one of these known CAT ratings does it tie to? So be careful when you're buying cable, you never know what CAT rating you might run into. Instructor: One other class of cabling that you should take note of is the direct buried cable. Now if you think of our typical land cables, or fiber optic cables, or coax cables that we use indoors, they have a very thin sheathing, typically just to provide against some basic cut protection, and very, very minimal waterproofing. But if we wanted to actually bury those cables outdoors to do an outdoor run, or maybe spread services to an adjacent building, it wouldn't fare so well in the elements. So we've actually come up with what's called a direct buried cable, and these cables have extra layers of insulation, and waterproofing that help provide extra heat tolerance, and protection against soil acidity, and all sorts of moisture protection. And they're actually a lot more preferable in areas with lightning strikes, because if you think about it, the cable is buried so it's gonna be less prone to have lightning strikes. And in fact, in my home state we use a lot of direct buried cable. So just take note of that. You'll need to know it for the exam.