-: A full blown infrastructure network is often a little bit overkill for small offices and home offices. Let's face it, it takes a little technical skill to go into your wireless access point and properly configure it and setting up your encryption and all that stuff. So what we're seeing a lot in small offices and home offices is something like this. This is a Wireless Mesh Network. The whole idea behind a mesh network is it's basically ad hoc mode but on steroids, with mesh, we get a lot of benefits. In particular, it's easy, like almost silly easy to set up. The idea here is that we're gonna have one base station, and this base station is connected to my actual network itself. So I can plug this into my cable modem or whatever you might have. And then really, all I'm gonna have to do is configure an SSID, which I've already got set up on here. And then I begin placing these external stations. On this particular device, I just find a power plug and plug them in. So wherever I want better coverage, I just plug these guys in. So, now normally, I would never plug them right next to each other like this, but I'll put a base station in one point, and then I'll put this towards the back of the house say, or this towards the front, and it will literally work as a mesh network literally taking a signal, going from one system to another to another as necessary in order to get a good wireless signal anywhere I want it. Now, the fun part to this is, again, it's pretty easy to set up. So on this particular one, it's all done through a app, and I've got an Android phone. So let's take a look at what I've got here. So right now it's very, very happy. You'll see that it sees two of these Eeros devices, if you look. Here, it says "Office", and it gives me the information about the office one, and then it shows me one of these, which I already have matched up, called the "Situation Room". Very clever. And what I wanna do now is let's just kind of take a look at the overall settings. First of all, we can see there's some other devices connected here, which is interesting. But let's go in and let's take a look at the network settings. So the network name, that's my SSID, right there, Mike's Home, and I've got a password punched in. Here's some IP address information. Now, what is interesting, is that when you look at the screen, there's nothing for setting up WPA2 encryption or any of that stuff. There's no WPS. That's because these mesh devices will use third party types of encryption that are very, very robust, and they come that way out of the box. So there's pretty much nothing other to setup other than an SSID and a password for that SSID. So what I wanna do now is I've got this extra satellite, and I wanna go ahead and connect it. So let's go ahead and do that. So I've got an "Add eero" here, and they call it a Beacon,. and it wants me to put it in a good spot. So it's found this second Beacon device, the second satellite device. And I can then go, if I want to, and run a placement test. The placement test just allows this thing to be able to see if it's got really good coverage if it can get to another one of these devices. and give me good overall wireless service. So it's pretty straightforward. The bottom line is, is that mesh networks are becoming more and more popular all the time. They're never gonna have the big throughput that you'll have with a robust infrastructure network with lots of WAPs. But their ease of configuration, and their general robustness, and their ability to support what most people need in small offices and home offices is absolutely plenty.