-: 802.11 is certainly the most dominant form of wireless we use today, but there are others. So I wanna talk about a couple of these in this episode. In particular, I wanna talk about RFID, and I wanna talk about Bluetooth. Now, RFID stands for Radio Frequency Identification, RFID. Now, RFID is very, very popular like in warehouses and things like that. RFID manifests as a tiny little sticker. Now, this sticker is actually a radio, and it stores usually a few hundred bits of information, not a lot, although there are some versions of RFID that store more. Now, what you'll do is you will then take the sticker, and you put it on a box or whatever you want, and then you have these readers. And these readers actually use the radio frequency energy to power up these little tiny stickers, and then the stickers have enough energy to transmit back. So whatever information they have will be transmitted back to the reader, and you get whatever you need. So number of toothpastes in a box, or is this an empty trash can, or is this a full trash can? So RFID is used a lot in the industrial world. We see it a lot in distribution. But when it comes down to individual users, we don't see RFID too much except for one particular situation called near-field communication, or NFC. For example, what I have here is a little laser printer. And this laser printer has what we call tap-to-print. One of the cool things about NFC is that pretty much all smart devices today have an RFID reader in it that does this NFC thing. NFC is RFID. So what we can do is, for example, I can go ahead and do a tap-to-print. Now the reason they say tap is because these are very low power, and they have to be physically very, very close. You don't really have to tap it. If you wanna get really close, it'll still work. So we see these types of NFCs for all kinds of tap-to-anything. Tap-to-pay, for example, is very popular both with Mac and with Google devices. We see that a lot. But the bottom line is that they are all different types of RFID. They work fantastically well. The other technology I wanna talk about is Bluetooth. Now, Bluetooth, from a signal level, looks a lot like 802.11, but it has some very big differences. The biggest single difference of Bluetooth versus 802.11 is that Bluetooth is designed to connect two devices and only two devices together at one time in what's called a personal area network, or a PAN. So if you see the word PAN, think Bluetooth. Like for example, I've got some cool Apple headphones here, and I've got my iPhone, and I wanna actually get these guys together. I'm going to join them together in this personal area network. Now, before we do that, you do need to be aware that Bluetooth comes in different classes, which gives you an idea as to how far the signal strength can work. Let me show you the three classes you need to know. Class 1 will shoot out up to 100 meters. Class 2 is 10 meters, and class 3 is less than 10 meters. These classes are important because interesting things come up from time to time. For example, for years, Microsoft sold a particular type of Bluetooth keyboard. So what you would have is you'd have your keyboard, and you had a little dongle that came with it. You plug the dongle in. It was already paired to the keyboard. But the interesting part was, is it was a class 1 Bluetooth device, which always made it fun 'cause I could go over to my friend's computers, and I could plug the Bluetooth dongle in, and from the other side of the room, I could start typing on their screens, which made for hours and hours of raucous laughter. Normally, we work very hard with Bluetooth devices to make sure that they have a class that makes sense for a particular device. So today, if you're gonna get a keyboard, odds are good, it's gonna be class 2. So if you wanna mess with your friends, you gotta get closer than 100 meters 'cause it might make a bit of a difference. Anyway, so what I wanna do right now is I wanna go through the process of pairing. So what I've got here is my iPhone and some earbuds. Let's watch pairing in action. Okay, so first of all, you'll see I've got Bluetooth turned on. So I'm gonna actually open the package that my earbuds are in. Let him do a little search. And I actually have some AirPods on here already. These are not mine. That's okay. He sees them, so I'm gonna go ahead and connect. And I've gotta actually hold a button on the little charging case. The connection starts. Everybody's got plenty of electricity. And I've got me some AirPods. On a lot of Bluetooth devices, especially older ones, it's not quite this pretty. What we need to be aware of is that for a lot of devices, you have to set one device into what we call discoverable mode, and then the other device then seeks out these other Bluetooth devices. Once they see each other, they will then go through usually a four-digit PIN code to actually create the pairing. So this is a much more modern one. We see this both on Mac as well as on Android devices now where they don't even go through the four-digit pairing anymore. So either one of those is fine. Okay, so the big takeaway from this episode is make sure you're aware of RFID. The big thing about RFID is that it doesn't transmit very fast. In fact, there's about 100 subsets. I'm not even gonna give you a speed for RFID 'cause there's so many different ones, but it requires some kind of reader to activate the RFID tag, which then send data back to the reader itself. And the big place we see RFID today is in near-field communication. And if you've got a smartphone, you have that ability today. The other one is Bluetooth, which we all probably know and love. And if you wanna connect anything from earbuds to connect yourself to your automobile, to set up a pair of speakers, Bluetooth is the way to go. Just remember, you gotta pair 'em.