-: If you're going to be a user of the internet, and you wanna connect to the internet, odds are good, you're gonna be using what we call a broadband connection. Broadband connections are the typical way we connect, cables, DSL, sometimes wireless, sometimes even satellites. I want to cover those in this episode. Now, the important thing about broadband versus dial-up is broadband isn't always on connection. You're pretty much always connected to the internet even when you're not at your computer, it's still connected and ready to go, ready for you whenever you need it. So let's start with probably the granddaddy of all, DSL. Now, DSL stands for digital subscriber line. And it was one of the earliest versions of broadband and it worked because it piggybacked on top of telephone lines to give you a digital service. So you could still have a regular telephone on that line, but it added more signal that was a digital signal. Now what I have in front of me here is a DSL modem. We're gonna have to talk about that word modem. So you'll see this green connector, that's where you plugged into your telephone line, that was your connection to your ISB. And then there's a bunch of yellow connections on here too. 'Cause really what we're looking at here, folks, this is a DSL modem, plus a router, plus a switch, and wireless network key. It's even a wireless access point, all built into this one little box. Now you gotta be careful with the word modem. The only thing that's a modem is an old dial up modem where you would connect and use a dial up connection. However, there was always this box sitting next to our computers. If you wanted to be officially correct, we would call it a DSL terminal adapter, but nobody does. We call it a DSL modem. It does not modulate or demodulate, it's just a terminal adapter, but the term modem is stuck. So we tend to call all these boxes modems even though that's not really what they are. Okay, so here we go with DSL. Now, DSL was in two forms. We had asymmetric DSL, which means that your upload speed was much slower than your download speed. And then we had symmetric DSL, which your upload and your download were the exact same speed. So back in the old days, DSL was pretty slow. You'd have upload speeds like 760 kilobits per second up to maybe 3 megabits per second, with downloads starting back in the old days maybe 1.5 megabit per second. Today, 7 megabits per second or even better are common downloads. It's pretty rare to see old school DSL like this where you actually plug into a phone line and connect to the internet. It's still out there, there's plenty of them. I know you people with DSL, you're out there. I understand. Now there are a couple of nuances to setting up a system if you have DSL. So what I've got is my little router here, and it has a couple of settings in here which would be good for DSL. Let me show you one. So on this box, I'm gonna go over to network, and this time I'm gonna go to internet. Now, a lot of times today we set these up as dynamic IP. However, on many DSLs you have to use something called point-to-point protocol over ethernet or PPPoE. Then you have to type in some username and some password which is given to you from your ISP. And then it will basically do ADHCP and put all this information in for you. The whole idea behind PPPoE is when people first started using broadband, we thought we were gonna do it like dial up, where you had a modem and your computer and you connect it, right? And if you wanted two computers to connect to the internet in your house, they had to dial another phone number. But with broadband, people started using routers for the first time. So what we would do is that we'd end up putting four or five or six people on one internet connection. Everybody's like, "Woo, we wanted to charge you for each different person! So we're gonna make you log in through this thing called PPPoE." And we get around that because we have routers that now understand PPPoE. And you just type in your username and password. And once again, you can put four or five computers on one DSL connection. Today, all DSL providers know that everybody does this. And in fact, a lot of DSL have even dumped the PPPoE completely. However, be aware that if you have a problem getting people to connect, pretty much every router has that PPPoE where you can type in a username and password. Okay, now the next one I wanna talk about is cable. And I've got a cable box right here. So this cable box, you have an incoming F-type connection for your cable, and then this connection goes out to your router. This is actually just a pass through if you wanna keep a TV running on it. Cable uses a protocol called DOCSIS. Now, DOCSIS is pretty similar to ethernet, actually. It has MAC addresses and everything like that, except it works really well when you wanna be able to still watch HBO and stuff like that and get on the internet at the same time. So it works out pretty good. Cable's speeds have changed a lot over the years. You'll see things like back in the older days, it was a upload of about 1.5 megabit per second with downloads of around 10 megabit per second. Today, it's not uncommon to see 50 megabit per second uploads and 100 megabit per second downloads. And even now, because of so many of these fiber options out there, we're seeing cable which actually offers gigabit upload and download. So those are pretty convenient too. Setting up for something like this is pretty easy. There's not a lot to do but there's one little setting I wanna show you that can be really handy when you're setting up a cable. So on this particular router, it's down here. Do you see this? MAC Clone. So what I can do is I can say, use the MAC address that's built into my cable modem. I can go ahead and pull the MAC address off of my computer and let the cable modem use this, or I can type in a custom MAC address. One of the challenges you run into with cable modems is that a lot of people are gonna use the cable modem that comes from your cable internet service provider and they're charging you five bucks a month, six bucks a month for this thing. So what a lot of people will do is they'll go out and buy their own cable modem. So this is a cable modem and a router and a wireless and a switch and a firewall, and it's probably a refrigerator in here too. (laughing) But anyway, so what a lot of people will do is they'll go, "I don't wanna pay 5 bucks a month, so I'll spend 40, 50, 60 bucks, buy one of these, they pays for itself in a year, which is not a bad idea." However, cable companies tend to be a little unhappy with that. So what they're going to do is they're going to go, "Oh, wait a minute. The moment you plug that in that has a different MAC address." And all of a sudden you may have trouble. It really depends on your cable company. So one of the things we could do is we could clone the MAC address off of our old cable modem type, type it in here, and nobody's the wiser, everybody's happy. Today most cable companies are very comfortable with the fact that a lot of people are buying their own cable modems. They don't have a problem with it. And usually what they'll ask you to do is to register your new cable box with them which usually just means a quick phone call, and at the same time, you can cancel the rental on your cable box and life is good. Okay, now there are two others I wanna at least mention. Number one is satellite. Satellite is a heaven sent opportunity for people who don't live near cable or DSL opportunities. So folks out in the country really, really loves satellite. Things that are out on the ocean, love satellite. Satellite used to be a real pain, but today it's absolutely amazing. We're talking today with uploads of around 3 megabits per second, and downloads of around 25 megabits per second, or even better than that. So satellite is absolutely fantastic. And you know what? It's got a modem just like anything else, and there's nothing even unique to deal with it. The only downside to satellite is that it gets what we call latency. Once it's up and cooking, it tends to move pretty quick, but a lot of times you're gonna be trying to click on a website or something and you get these big stalls and that's just because you've got this big parabolic antenna on your roof that's trying to connect to a satellite that's, you know, 12,000 miles away in geosynchronous orbit, and sometimes that can be a little bit slow. But other than that, it's absolutely fantastic. And the last one, this is an interesting one that people are rarely aware of, and that is you can use special 802.11 setups for your internet service provider. I'm not talking about the wireless in your house. I'm talking about you get companies out there that will give you a big old Yagi or parabolic antenna that's gonna shoot out to some tower somewhere, and it's extremely popular. These types of 802.11s are virtually proprietary because they shoot distances way outside the original 802.11 standards, but they do it by using really good antennas, and they're highly tuned by technicians, and it can be an absolutely amazing way. In Texas, we have tons of these 802.11 service providers. If you go out in the hill country in Central Texas, there's lots and lots of them. Alright, so for the exam, make sure you're aware of these different types of broadband connections. Make sure you understand that things like DSL may need PPPoE, make sure that cables can often have to have a clone of a MAC address, and make sure if you're out in the country, there may be nothing better than satellite, or 802.11 Instructor 2: Hank is absolutely correct. Those wireless internet service providers or WISPs allow for some really high-end networks to be set up almost overnight in areas in fixed locations where you wouldn't normally have the wiring for such a project to occur. So WISPs are definitely interesting. Another thing you may find, if you have fiber running to your house is something called an ONT or an optical network terminal. And if you think about it, we have a fiber coming to our house, which uses light signals, right? It's primary transmission mechanism for sending data is through light. Well, we need a way to be able to convert that light into electricity, to go across copper wiring and go to the rest of our routing equipment and our computers and our ethernet cables and all that good stuff. And this is actually where the ONT comes in. So the ONT's primary job is to actually convert that data from those light signals into the copper and electric. And if you have a common fiber install, and today this one's actually from Verizon Fios, but if you have a fiber install, then outside your house, you are gonna have an ONT, and you're gonna need to know how to troubleshoot it and maintain it for the exam.