-: Okay folks, it's your buddy, the great Mike Strami, here yet again to talk about troubleshooting issues. Now, I'm gonna do it a little bit differently this time because we've already covered so much troubleshooting in networking that all I wanna do is wrap it up with a couple of little zen concepts that I wanna make sure you understand. Look, the A+ is going to be filled, and mean filled, with big, long, hairy-looking networking questions that are really pretty simple as long as you stick to a couple of basic rules. Number one, understand how networks work, and number two, go with a couple of rules that always work for me. Number one, don't let the physical get you down. If you think there's a problem with your physical network, always check that first. Check your link lights. Take a look at the lower-right-hand corner on a Windows system, or upper-right-hand corner on a Linux or a Mac system, and verify that you have actual connectivity before you start blaming anything else. Now, once that's out of the way, there's some other things we can do. Number one, ye shall know your network. In particular, it's absolutely imperative that you know your network ID, that you know what your router is, and that you know what your DNS server is. It's so easy to do. Just run ipconfig. In fact, let's run it with the /all. When you run this, you automatically get all the information you want. Here's your IPv6 address. Here's your IPv4 address. Here's your default gateway, both in IPv6 and IPv4. If you have a DHCP server, it's gonna tell you where that is right here. If you've got a DNS server, and you do, it will show you right here. You should know this. You should know this before there's a problem. I don't care if you're at home or at your office or in a big, huge enterprise. If you're in charge of IT, you make sure you just know these things and you document it. Take little pieces of paper and draw circles with network IDs in them and stuff so that when trouble comes along, you'll know what to do with it. The other tool you need to know is that you need to know your internet connectivity. So most of us have some router someplace, but in a lot of situations, we may have two or three internal routers before we get out to the actual internet itself. And anytime someone says, "The internet's down," it would be nice to be able to check to see if you can get a connection. And that's where a very powerful program called traceroute comes into play. The power of traceroute is you run it when everything's good so you know what it's supposed to look like, and then, if something's bad, you can deal with it. Let's run traceroute. So it's spelled tracert like this in Windows, but it's traceroute, spelled all the way out, on Mac and Linux machines. So what we're gonna do is we just wanna go someplace out on the internet. It doesn't matter where you go. I'm gonna pick a webpage in this particular example. So I'm gonna let this guy run. So it's going out to an IPv6 address. Now, take a look here. First of all, because we ran ipconfig /all, we know that our internal network starts with a 2603. So this is my internal network, and now this is coming out to probably my gateway router, and then a bunch of other connections. So the idea here is you get to know all the routers to get out on the internet. So for me, I've got one internal router, and then I've got one gateway router out to the internet. Let's do this again, 'cause you don't have to use a webpage. Just pick some arbitrary FTP site. Now, this is an IPv4 one, so let's watch. So there's my internal router, that totalhome 192.168.4. There's that 96.120, is my gateway router out to the internet. And here's all a bunch of... This one's far away, man. We gotta go and go and go. So you'll see here on tracert, we're starting to see some asterisks. That's because some routers are designed not to respond back. But it's still okay. What it's showing us is that we're out of the internal networks and out to the internet. Look, if the internet goes down, and it's one of your routers, then it's your problem. So I could run traceroute again in the future, and let's say I only get one hop, just one, it never gets to my gateway router, that's telling me there's probably something between my internal router and my gateway router that I need to deal with. Traceroute is an incredibly powerful tool. Just run it before you have any problems, and know all of your internal routers. If something breaks down out there in the world of Comcast, or something like that, you're not gonna fix that, but at least you're aware there's nothing wrong with the routers for you to get out to your ISP. Got the idea? The other one I wanna talk about is ping. Ping is one of these commands that does so much goodness for us in one shot, it's not even funny. Like, for example, I'm gonna just run ping real quick, and I'm gonna ping my router, because I know what my router is, because I've looked with ipconfig /all, and I have it memorized. So I run this and I get a reply. I automatically know, automatically know, that I've got a good IP address on this system, and I know that the router is responding, so it's probably up and running. Ping is an amazing tool when used properly. Here's another trick you can do with ping. Watch this. Now, I'm gonna run a ping here, and I'm just picking some arbitrary FTP site in this case. Now, look, it's timing out. Do you see that? Who cares? What I want you to do, let's look at this one more time, and I want you to recognize something very, very important that's happening. I pinged a fully-qualified domain name, and it returned an IP address. Do you see that 134? You wanna know if your DNS server's working? Just try to ping something by its fully-qualified domain name. Ba! You don't have to use nslookup or any of that stuff. Just a quick ping by a fully-qualified domain name is the best test of a DNS server you can possibly think of. Now, I could only give you a few ideas in this episode about troubleshooting networks. Keep in mind that there are lots of tools out there you can get for all kinds of things. But for me, 95% of the time, I fix all of my network problems with just ping, traceroute, and ipconfig. Use those three tools. You're gonna see 'em all over the exam. Practice with them, play with them. You're gonna love 'em.